Holy fuck. A simple google search just revealed that Philomena gets paid $480,000 a year and is overseeing the dismantling of the school into a quasi-online for-profit model ala Bain Capital style restructuring. A reasonable salary for an executive would be $150,000. We could pay 3 Emeritus level Professors with the excess. What other executives are getting paid this excessively while we are seeing MOTHERFUCKING TUITION HIKES?! Meanwhile, they are forcing professors to take on increased course loads for what essentially amounts to executive profiteering?!!?   


We need to organize.  


The Professors need a union.

&#x200B;

The students need a union.   


DM me your info if you are down with the movement and want to organize!
Just for context, the annual budget is $350M or so.

For some more context, the university is facing a $35M budget deficit as a result of Covid and decreased tuition.
Does this seem out of the ordinary compared to other presidents across the state?

UofM's president makes over $850,000, MSU's president has a base salary $800,000 but can top out at a million with incentives. Many of the private college presidents are probably making a lot more than $480,000 too. Its comparable with what WMU and CMU are paying which seems about right to me.

At $150,000 you probably arent going to be able to attract the kind of person you need to run a school of this size.
Faculty does have a union; its called the University Academic Senate and the Executive Committee of the Senate.

Students do have a union; its called Student Senate.

If anybody want to voice your concerns about tuition, student affairs, or really anything student related PLEASE contact Student Senate [here](https://www.gvsu.edu/studentsenate/cms-contact-index.htm)
The issue is with our many admins there are. I had a Management professor at GV 6ish years ago, very smart guy! He said when he started (80s) that there was a professor to admin ratio of 1:2 or 1:3. He said it's since doubled, and that the admins are getting paid way more. There's the issue.
Yeah fuck this shit paying more for this ambiguous online bullshit fuck them I want more transparency when I’m paying an arm and a leg for an education
I completely disagree. Yes, it’s high, but high salaries show how valuable people are. If Philomena’s salary were lower, then the university would risk losing her to another university with more lucrative pay.
No more unions please
Just because they get away with it doesn't make it right. We can only change our school and can not worry about the compensation packages offered at other schools.

Are you a student? Are you okay with financing this egregious salary?
A Senate is beholden to the whims and interests of the Administration which has proven itself compromised by careerists.
Does the University Academic Senate engage in contract and salary negotiations on behalf of the Professors?
you know you can email the president at president@gvsu.edu and say you want more transparency. I don't think they are getting actual student feedback about this process.
https://mibiz.com/sections/economic-development/gvsu-names-philomena-mantella-as-next-president#:~:text=GVSU%20trustees%20unanimously%20approved%20a,first%2Dyear%20salary%20of%20%24480%2C000.
Just graduated here. 

~500k is not an egregious salary IMO. The president is responsible for the reputation and smooth operations of the entire university. 

You can make $150k a year as a truck driver if you really wanted to. It might sound like a lot to you as an undergrad, but it’s nowhere near high enough to attract the level of talent you need to handle the great responsibilities that come with the job.
Then what’s your plan when admin says “No”? 

These two organizations are created for this exact reason. If there are concerns from either of their respective groups, the senators will work on their behalf.
No, just like Student Senate doesn’t negotiate grades with professors.

It’s the role of the Senates to discuss university policies and to decide what would benefit their constituencies the best.
Nice. You do know you go to one of the most fiscally responsible universities in the country, right?
The president’s salary hasn’t been adjusted for inflation — EVER! 

Ex-President’s are guaranteed to make bank if they want by writing books, giving speeches, and consulting. The salary is totally inconsequential, don’t act like it has any relevance at all.
Actually yeah, potus is a job that isn't meant to pay well. Like at all. That job isn't about the money.
bro what
I'm unfamiliar with this statue. Who is it of? Who made it? when was it constructed?
GVSU FRIENDS!!! 

Hey everyone, as many of you know there is an infuriating confederate monument in Allendale, the home of GVSU's main campus. When a community group organized a protest against it, local politicians called in well-armed white supremacists to defend it. A few of us were at that protest and it was scary - some of the same people involved in storming the state legislature in April were present. GVSU's president weighed in on the issue, but the language was not very forceful, and the Allendale Township Board remains committed to keeping this statue up. The GVSU History Dept recently approved a much stronger statement calling for the removal of the statue, and in the hopes of putting pressure on both GVSU and Allendale, we would love to share it more widely. If you are connected to GVSU as a student, staff, or faculty member, you can help us do this! Go to the link below and you can sign the statement in support of the department. GVSU as an institution is committed to equity and inclusion, and it should take a clear stand on Allendale's confederate monument.
I found this article: https://www.mlive.com/news/grand-rapids/2020/06/confederate-soldier-statue-likely-to-stay-in-west-michigan-veterans-display.html

I think it's interesting that this petition says nothing about a Union soldier also being depicted, and that this statue is part of Veterans 
Garden. I think it's important for us to remember why we fought the Civil war -- let's not forget that the good guys won! I think this petition is a giant waste of time. This statue is in no way glorifying  white supremacy -- it's recognizing that we fought a war to advance human rights. How about you organize to make our community a better place instead of being professionally offended by anything that's triggering.
Where is this statue located? I’ve never seen it before.
I’ll sign just based on historical inaccuracies.
Actually extremely disappointing to hear the history department is falling for this stuff.
so you’re telling me that local politicians informally or formally asked racist people with guns to come to a college campus and stand around a statue that people were protesting for it to be taken down...?
It's in the Veterans Garden and also depicts a Union Soldier. This petition feels like virtue signaling to me. "These monuments were put in place by groups like the United Daughters of the Confederacy to inscribe in public spaces their conviction that white supremacy..." NO! This is a statue of American soldiers in THE VETERANS GARDEN where it belongs. There's no message here of white supremacy. Only a history lesson that life is really hard and that the North cared enough about our African brothers and sisters to go to war to fight for their rights. Tearing it down would be a signal that we shouldn't remember this fight for justice and human rights.
Thank you
So you believe you are more knowledgeable about American history and it’s context than the History Department? Nice.
No OP is outraged because that's the cool thing to do these days. Imagine if we used this energy to actually bring people together to affect real durable positive change, like community gardens, public health initiatives or Women's center fund raisers. This is such monumental BS that i want to build a giant Turd statue to honor all the Social Justice Warriors who want to see symbolic change that doesn't do anything to benefit those who are actually disenfranchised
That Confederate statue is in Allendale at the township Park off of 68th Ave.
Slavery was one of the triggers of the Civil War?
I read a few articles about this and it’s definitely not virtue signaling. Let’s evaluate the statue. Before we do that, we need to address the quote you pulled from the petition. That quote was put there to give context to the initial proliferation of confederate statues in this country and why there were erected. This petition is in no, shape, or form claiming the United Daughters of the Confederacy put these statues here, just that they were the first group to erect them en masse. The United Daughters of the Confederacy has been widely accused of promoting white supremacy and white-washing history for a long time. If someone disagrees with that, prove otherwise. 

For the statue, it depicts a Confederate soldier and a Union soldier standing with their back against each other (in a protective position)over a slave boy holding a sign that reads “Freedom to Slaves” dated January 5, 1863. Firstly, why are they depicting two COMBATANT soldiers defending the same thing? The Union and Confederacy fought largely over the continuance of slavery, with one group (the Confederacy) leaving the country/attacking the other group in effort to continue the practice of chattel slavery. 

Secondly, the date on the paper the slave is holding is at best, historical inaccurate and at worse, white-washing. Lincoln signed the Emancipation Proclamation on 01/01/1863 and the last slaves weren’t freed until 06/19/1865. So why the date chosen? On 01/05/1863, Jefferson Davis (Confederate President) said : 
“May God prosper our cause and may we live to give to our children untarnished the rich inheritance which our fathers gave to us.” 
“Our cause” was fighting to persevere slavery. Yet, the statue has him protecting a slave. 

This statue is not accurate depiction of the Civil War at all. This statue paints the picture they were both fighting to free the slaves when in reality, one side started a war to keep slavery and the other fought back to reunite as a country. I haven’t heard about this statue at all until I saw this post, but holy shit its intellectual dishonest. They should haven taken this down based on that. Funny how the argument was to ‘remember our history’. I would agree to keep it up it actually portrayed reality, but this statue serves as propaganda to Confederates.
No way in hell this is virtue signaling. They appear incredibly passionate about this and it's come up multiple times in the 6 years I've been around gvsu. Plus what would the point of them just virtue signaling be? They definitly want it done and it's not like it's backed by some buissness, which is the easiest way to spot virtue signaling

Whether it makes sense or not idk I never felt the need to look into it more
I think it's outright stupid to encourage the erasure of history.
i will second building a giant turd statue.
Maybe you should rewrite the petition. If there's nuance and incorrect political context, it's certainly not outlined in what's written.
The only historical aspect of this statue is that it is a statue lol

Edit for grammer
It’s not mine. I saw it here like everyone else. But come on, you know making a statue that depicts a confederate soldier defending a slave to allow him to be free is straight bullshit.
Grammar aside, by your logic you can say that about all forms of art.
We’re talking about statues accurately representing historical events. This statue does not accurately represent historical events. Dont move goalposts.
How so?
Basically the title. I see snapchat stories all the time of packed rooms filled with maskless people and people vacationing without quarantining when they return. Then they insist on getting in my personal space in line at the dining halls and bus stops and I am honestly really scared. Nobody is taking this seriously and I don’t want to have to face the consequences. I already take every precaution I can, I am not going home for the holidays or going on vacation, I wear masks in social situations and in public spaces. I am just tired of everyone else bringing the new variants into this campus when we are so close to being vaccinated.
Just sign up to get vaccinated is about all you can do.
you can report them to the university. there’s a webpage somewhere where you can report student conduct violations, and violating covid guidelines is “student endangerment”. i’m sure the punishments vary, but at least something will be done :/
If I were you and I saw a party on a snapchat story, I would try to find their location via snap map (if they have their location on) and snitch snitch snitch. These adult children have it coming to them
I would go ahead and file a report with the Office of Student Conduct and Conflict Resolution (OSCCR). They can take action. Only problem is you have to know names of those violating the protocol. 

https://www.gvsu.edu/osccr/file-a-report-22.htm
Wow lol
Youre right. I don’t understand the selfishness of these people.
Agreed. I’d be the biggest snitch on the goddamn planet.
https://imgur.com/a/wQXtpc2
This is just one of several parties ive seen on snapchat. They are all crowded in what looks like one of the dorm rooms/bedrooms.
ikr this sub is a joke
Cry about it
I'm right there with you. It's so obnoxious seeing all these people being so irresponsible.  But yeah unfortunately given the school's response to the uptick in cases being "hey maybe think about not doing whatever you're doing" I doubt they'll actually do too much about it. Hope you stay safe out there and get poked when you can
People like u and op are the ones “crying about it”. It’s honestly ridiculous that people are still thinking like this with a vaccine and the knowledge we have abt the virus..

How would it be effective to report somebody for essentially doing the same things that take place in bars and restaurants in GR?
We are still in the early stages of getting a vaccine rolled out. Cases are rising quite a bit. Variants are spreading. This is absolutely not what’s going on in most bars and restaurants, and if it is, they’re typically reported for it. Don’t use the vaccine existing as an excuse for this. There’s a lot more that needs to happen, even if you yourself have it.
I never understood the infatuation with the president of the university. He's just an old man.
The president we had before T.Hass sucked. When T.Hass became president he used to sub classes, and sometimes serve food at Fresh and was just an all around cool guy. I have worked at and gone to several universities since and none of them have been as friendly or well liked as T.Hass 
He also has way less influence in university and academic affairs than people think he does - He's really just a figurehead. 

I've never been a huge supporter of him and I think he's really holding the university back in some ways (pandering to big donors, allowing our athletic programs to crumble under the purview of a nepotistic athletic director, allowing too much corporate influence on campus, etc)   

That personal phone call to The Lanthorn exec editor a year or two ago was the last straw IMO 
Well yea its cool to appreciate a nice guy, but people flip shit when they see him. I don't get that.
How many university presidents do you know?
because that is the closest the majority of campus will ever get to someone even sort of remotely famous/popular. I mean, everyone needs something to get excited for.
You guys act like there wasn’t an option to take online classes, you made the choice to come to campus and if you didn’t weigh the risks of that it’s 100% on you. It was obvious from the start there was gonna be some covid on and around campus and our cases were about what most who did think about it were expecting. Me and my flatmates can’t learn online and that’s why we’re here, don’t try to take that from us just because you can’t think things through.
Hi, I'm a senior, I have a very specific set of classes I have to take this year. One of them had no online option. Go ahead and assume that we all had a choice if that's what makes you feel better though. It's valid that you don't want all online classes for the reason you stated but how about you don't come in here and make accusations about people whose circumstances you know nothing about.
Lol you act like the students are the ones deciding if we go full online
Whether some courses did or did not offer an online option every single person still made the CHOICE to take classes this semester. For those that will be quick to respond with "but my major...", "but as a <fill in the blank> student..", etc you still made the choice.

Is there a potential for setbacks if someone makes the choice to not take classes this semester? Absolutely. 

The hard reality is that every single person (whether they want to admit it or not) weighed the decision to take in-person classes against the risk of contracting covid.
Oh no ARealOpossum, didn't you hear, that kind of logical thinking isn't allowed around here.

Fortunately though, this sub is just a giant circle jerk and a minority opinion, so I wouldn't worry about losing your in person classes.
I dont think you understand the reality of what happens if students dont decide to take classes for a semester. If students, like me, have loans of any kind you have to start making payments back into them if you arent in school for a set amount of time. For a lot of students going into repayment isnt financially optionally for them right now so they have no choice but to continue schooling.
I’m a freshman this year and the GVSU subreddit seemed really cool until I realized half of it is just people shitting on GVSU for how they’ve handled COVID.
Is that what the financial aid office explained when you talked with them about the concern of student loan repayment if you choose to not take classes this semester?

I would find it odd they wouldn't inform you of the six month grace period from when you are no longer enrolled for six credits or more, or about deferment and forbearance options that are available due to financial hardship.

At a minimum they should have at least informed you about the extension of the Student Loan Payment Relief until Dec 31, 2020 which ceases all student loan payments and waives all interest on student loans.

Are you sure you spoke with an actual financial aid counselor and not a student worker?
Hmmm maybe we should have kept the fucking megathread? Ive been saying for weeks this sub has become nothing but shitting on gvsu for covid and we should be keeping it in one thread.
As an atheist, this is good news. Everyone should have religious freedom and their place they had to pray before is not as silent and up to date as the Christian one.
I fail to see why this is a step in the wrong direction.
I hope this construction seriously doesn't mean "construction". Why can't other religions use Cook-DeWitt? I'm pretty sure that there only needs to be one religious building on the campus of a public university, no matter which religion it's for.
Cook DeWitt isn't owned by GVSU though. The owners just "allow" it to be used; which is also why people can rent it for weddings and stuff like that.I think the entire thing is stupid though. Religion is often a notion tossed around when someone wants votes, and its pretty obvious in this case. Not to be a dick but I dont think the university should be paying for anything like this. If there's a large backing for it, someone needs to put their money where their mouth is and fund it themselves (like the trust founders who paid for cook DeWitt) and not expect the student body to do it for them
Throughout history, religion has always been anti-science, anti-progress, anti-human rights, etc... 

It really pains we to see a university (which stands for science, human rights, progress, etc) devote more space for this type of stuff. 
OP is an Atheist, and creating a safe space for religious people somehow infringes on his rights.
It disregards the separation of church and state. 
It may be that the physical facilities just simply can't accommodate two different religions like Catholicism (think: lots of space needed for sacristy, vestments, etc.) and Islam -- not out of tolerance but just out of physical space. 
It's hard to say from the article what sort of construction there will be. It sounds like they will just be finding a place within a current facility. Regardless, all religions should have a place to do whatever not just Christians otherwise it perpetuates our already enclosed community.
Probably just a remodel of an existing space to make it quiet. Probably we are not talking about a new building like a prayer chapel. 
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Catholic_Church_and_science
Oh I thought it was operated by GVSU. I was thinking they were just promoting one religion over another, but that's obviously not the case. I see what you're saying now. I agree 100%.
I don't know why everyone is down voting you so much...
Either that or he/she thinks it disregards the separation of church and state, which it does. 
No it doesn't. It provides a safe and appropriate environment for the practicing of faith if one chooses to do so. By no means does supporting diversity and providing students with a place to exercise their freedom of religion disregard separation of church and state.
I think it's more of the fact that Cook-DeWitt is clearly designed for Judeo-Christian religions more than anything else. 

Other religions see this, and know that if they make enough noise about the issue, they'll get a space that's more closely designed for them. 

They know that the university won't push back on it because the institution wants to be seen as a diverse, inclusive community. 

The university is sort of backed in to a corner on this.
I don't disagree with that first statement necessarily because I believe in separation of church and state. But that second statement is not factually correct. See: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Catholic_Church_and_science
I agree! However, there's not going to /be/ zero religious buildings on campus, so we should at least only have one.
I feel like there's gonna be picketing or some shit by the Judeo-Christian groups if we make them share, but I feel like there should be. People should be made aware how ridiculous this situation is. My roommate is a satanist, should we be fighting for her to have a religious building?

No. It doesn't matter.
They use some vague wording, but it's owned by an "independent trust"...likely through a subsidiary of the Cook family(?). 

The whole thing seems a bit suspicious. 

* As a facility located on campus but not "owned" by the university, you would think that this trust would then be paying royalties to the university for land use, property tax, etc. This may or may not be the case. 

* When people rent this facility for weddings (etc) or when student organizations rent the space for meetings (as I have done before), all of the rental process is done through the university AND the invoice to pay for using the space is addresses from AND payable to the university, not an independent trust. 

* Cook-Dewitt is very clearly designed as a prayer chapel, there's no arguing that. The simple fact that an obvious prayer chapel was allowed to be built on the campus of what's supposed to be a progressive, scientific university is a bit strange. 

Very suspicious. 

Conclusion: The university, as usual, is pandering to the hyper-conservative ideals of some of their largest donors.
You're likely right, but I don't think that public/university funds should be used for a) building b) maintaining or c) cleaning this space. 
We have a very conservative student body, and it sometimes fails to see how issues on campus influence the broader higher education community. 
What do we do, then, when that separation of Church and State conflicts with the 1st Amendment right to practice any religion?  It's clear that practicing on campus is extremely inconvenient.
Who pays for: 

* Building the space? 

* Stocking the space? 

* Maintaining the space?

* Cleaning the space?

In all likelihood, the answer to the above questions is the university, hence the problem. 
We could go back and forth on church-sponsored book burnings, oppression, and the perpetuation of beliefs that have been proven scientifically inaccurate/unlikely all day, but we both know where we stand on that and neither of us will budge as the result of a simple internet discussion. 

I'll only say one thing about it: There was a time period when religion and the church were heavily intertwined with government and public institutions. This time period is/was called the "Dark Age(s)" for a reason.

Anyway, this particular student senate resolution being discussed will have no effect on students of the Catholic faith. 

Students of the Catholic faith and other Judeo-Christian religions use the Cook-Dewitt center for their religious needs, and the Cook-Dewitt center is not part of the university. 

This new space is for use by the ~10% of students at our university who identify as being of a religion other than Judeo-Christianity (e.g. Muslim students, Hindu students, Buddhist students, etc)...and this new space will be part of the university. 

This whole thing isn't an issue of the religious vs the non-religious, this is an issue of the separation of church and state.   
Cook-Dewitt is not owned by the university.
It's nice to see they embrace the idea of equality of religion at least, but I don't think it would make sense to have the university build a religious building, nor do I think it was right to have the Cook-Dewitt center built on campus if it was going to be entirely based on Christian religions.
FWIW, I have absolutely no problem with the university providing equitably to accommodate people of any religion, or or no religion at all. In fact I would suspect that the university is legally obligated to provide equitable accommodations for all, if GVSU is going to provide for any one religion at all. That last "if" is the point of contention, and I will leave that for better minds to discuss. 
Then why is it there? Is it like how Grand River Aseptic is run through the university?
Most of GVSU's big name donors are very conservative and religious. 

The university likely allowed the Cook-Dewitt Center to be built on campus to keep the aforementioned donors happy.

Grand River Aseptic pays the university to use their space. That company was already located there when the university purchased the land, and the university doesn't plan on using that land in the near future, so they allowed the company to stay as long as they pay royalties to the university. 

When the university decides to develop that space, Grand River Aseptic will be kicked-out. 
okay. That makes sense. Why is GRA through our phone system, though? I'm a switchboard operator and get calls all the time for them.

We've been seeing a lot of simple question threads the last few days, so rather than spam the sub with individual threads, ask your questions here and feel free to answer any questions you know.

If you want to post about COVID-19 updates or changes at GVSU, please also post them here. **Don't post a new thread.** All COVID-19 questions/rants/etc. threads will be removed.

**Edit**: Adding common links -- please comment or message the mods if there are more we should add.

- [GVSU COVID-19 Dashboard](https://www.gvsu.edu/lakerstogether/data-dashboard-37.htm)
- [Ottawa County COVID Dashboard](https://covidactnow.org/us/mi/county/ottawa_county/?s=1006211)
- [Spectrum MyChart](https://mychart.spectrumhealth.org)
not sure this thread is necessary. this isnt that big of a sub where it gets flooded with questions daily. kinda just seems like an effort to make the covid posts less noticeable.
Relegating what's possibly the biggest point of concern for college students this year to one thread is absolutely stupid
All of my friends and I were exposed to someone with Covid. We all got tested on wednesday and still have not heard anything back. We all signed up for the myChart thing, but is there anything else we’re supposed to do? Seems kind of pointless to get tested here at GV if the turnaround time for results is 3+ days.

Edit: Just called the hotline, and they said i should have my results in 3-5 DAYS FROM NOW. Do they not realize how dangerous that is? There is almost no point in wasting your time getting tested here if your results could take up to a week to come in.
Check the last two weeks of posts, we’ve gotten a lot of common, one-question threads. Better to consolidate them than flood the sub.
If you have other ideas, please send them to the mods. 

As I see it, this sub doesn’t need daily updates as threads about the number of cases or questions about testing. Consolidating common questions removes a lot of unnecessary, one question threads (which we’ve seen quite a bit over the last two weeks).
I quarantined for five days before I got results and that was in July when they weren't processing GV tests.
Then do a faq and lock threads if the q is on there. Don't just kill all discussion on the topic. Any time a thread like this is made, it just kills any relevant discussion on it
I think a better idea would maybe be to make a “frequently asked questions” sticky at the top of the page, with things like a link to register for spectrum MyChart and a link to the GV COVID-19 dashboard, etc. 

That way, new posts can still be made, but the number of one liner repeat questions can decrease. 

I’m a little annoyed about the same question being asked on repeat, but I did really like the post from the student this morning (?) about the Harvard health COVID tipping-point model, and I like seeing other posts like it. It’s a shame that comments on that post were locked. 

Just food for thought.
yeah i understand that, and I have been. I’m just saying it’s dangerous because i’m sure there’s a lot of people here who aren’t like me and won’t quarantine until they see they’ve tested positive; by that point they’ve likely already infected many others.
Register email, open mailer, and you are entered in that week's drawing. Good luck! http://www.taylorkole.com/say-hello
I was there and had an interesting time during the Q&A section
I was 7
Good... For you? 
In my time here at GVSU I have seen NDT and John Kasich, one of those was a good time.
I remember talking to someone recently about how they talked to him when he visited, but I can't remember who. I think it was one of the on-air talents at WGHN in Grand Haven (I was an intern there, I worked with them a lot). 

Also, fun fact: apparently the Nuge rode his motorcycle through my old highschool way back.
https://GVSU.edu/registrar/importantdates.htm
I must be missing what I'm searching for 
The woman in the bottom right is frequent used as a "sheltered freshman" meme. 
I mean, he did break the law.
I suppose it depends on what was in the emails they were sending.
Someone high-up got egg on their face, so naturally they're taking it to extremes. It's absolutely an over-reaction, but it's not a surprise.
You're not wrong, and I agree with you, but I still am taken aback by it a little every time friends and I talk about it. I don't view emails in general the same as the law does, so when someone sends prank emails or something like that, I take it as a joke, never thinking that guy just broke the law even though, as you said, he did.
Everywhere in Allendale has inflated prices. Just drive to Meijer in Standale if you have the time. In a pinch that store by BK does the job though. The one by the Meadows is really pricy imo.
Liquor store by bk sells at state minimum.
Meijer in Standale. 
There are no "deals" on alcohol because the prices are state regulated. Michigan assigns each product a "state minimum shelf price" aka the lowest price a retailer is legally allowed to sell it for. 

All neighborhood stores will most likely upcharge $1-3 on the state minimum. D&W/Family Fare and Meijer both have state min prices because they don't need to make a profit on those products.
I always went to the one by bk and jj. I always had great service and the prices aren't so bad. But for the cheapest mejier is your best bet. 
Not drinking saves a lot of money.
Sam is a cheapskate and all of his beer and food are expired lol
So does not going to college, yet here we are... 
When I would go in there to buy an Arnold Palmer (99¢) I would give him a dollar and he would be like, "I keep penny." And I'm thinking no dude that's not how it works. You offer the penny and then I say, "No that's okay you can keep it." In all seriousness though it's a good place if you need something quick but you will absolutely spend more than needed.
I worked there for a year and it was the worst place I've ever been(and I spent two years at McDonald's). Everything is over priced and/or expired, he acts buddy buddy with people then talks shit as soon as they leave, and he creeps on girls with his dozen security cameras. 
He is a real bro when he gives you a condom for the night, but its also really really weird.
wait, is Sam the old Indian guy?
He's so cheap that he doesn't even like to give out bags for you to carry your items in. Dude is unbelievable.  
That's only a dilemma if you choose a major that won't allow your investment to pay off.
From the Assistant Direct of Event Services...

>Good Afternoon,
> 
>Campus Life Night is now taking place on Saturday, 9/12, from 6-8 in Lot H.  Registration will begin at 5:00 p.m. 
>Our attempt to reschedule for Sunday was well-intended but not properly informed.  Sunday is the first day of
>Rosh Hashanah and would present a barrier for all of our campus community to attend.  In keeping with our GVSU mission
>and values, we want this high impact event to be available for all students!  
> 
>Should your organization be unable to attend please let me know via email and we will remove you from the list. 
>I hope you’re able to join us.  I look forward to seeing you on Saturday!
> 
>Thank you very much for your time.
>
>Respectfully,

My Response...

>Good Afternoon,
>
>I briefly wanted to express my immense disappointment in the decision to reschedule Campus Life Night. Please let me direct you to the federal governments list of recognized holidays for 2015: http://www.archives.gov/news/federal-holidays.html
>
>Grand Valley State University is a public university and should formally observe the holidays that are dictated by our governing body. While I completely respect the views of people from all demographics on campus, it is a lot to ask of the student body to observe a holiday practiced by a small minority. The beauty of religious freedom is that an individual can observe their faith independently. Why are the beliefs of the tiny majority being forced upon the entire student body? To add, Rosh Hashanah starts at dusk the evening prior to the start date of the holiday. Could these students make accommodations to leave early instead of making everyone else accommodate to them? These questions and concerns place serious doubt on whether or not this situation was handled appropriately. In addition, rescheduling this event sets a new precedent >going forth for groups on campus to take issue with the scheduling of campus wide events. 
>
>Aside from these unfortunate implications, why was Saturday chosen as the rescheduled date? Were there any concerns raised about Saturday evening being a poor choice for the student attendance? As the president of a club on campus that draws many new member from Campus Life Night, I worry that our membership will be significantly less this year.
>
>I look forward to hearing your response. 
>
>Best regards,



I don't think you have a good argument that your membership will be lower because it's on a Saturday instead of a Sunday. In fact I could argue that more people will attend CLN on a Saturday night because many people are all working on their homework Sunday night.

I also don't understand why it's such a large deal in the first place but to each their own.
This disappoints me because I work Saturday night and as a transfer was really looking forward to checking our the various clubs.
Half of my eboard won't be there. The other half doesn't want to be there (commitments they would have to now break). This Saturday is a pretty busy day for a lot of people. I doubt it will be shoulder to shoulder like it has. I hope I'm wrong though.
My club is in a similar situation as the weekends are when we do all our trips and activities. It's also pretty common for freshman and students in general to go home on weekends. I heard far less complaints from people when event got moved to Sunday.
Kirkhof.
Stay classy, /r/GVSU.
Jerkoff can't even spell Kirkhof
OK i am currently a freshman at GVSU and am in the engineering college. The classes i am taking are math 201 (calc), WRT 150, CHM 115, and EGR 106. these tips are mostly for getting through EGR and will not help you much if you're already in the class and struggling.

tip 1): take a programming class! i recommend learning C++, my senior year of highschool i took a C++ programming class and it is very similar to the Arduino C that you will absolutely have to learn to get through his class! the problem that most people i know have with learning programming in this class is learning the logic of it. programming logic is something that is somewhat hard to learn, but after you do everything is MUCH easier. and if you dont have the ability to take a programming class in highschool, then you should get a debugging program (recommend codeblocks with a C++ compiler) and learn some programming over the summer. if you're going to learn yourself, then start with flow charts! this is important! the flowcharts help you understand the logic of how the program works.

tip 2): get a CAD program, and mess around. in EGR 106 you have to learn how to use the CAD program solidworks, now its hard to get this program because it's expensive so i suggest getting the next best thing: Autodesk Inventor. both software use the same methods to create 3D objects the main differences being the placement of buttons on the GUI. 

tip 3): if you do, or dont follow those tips above and find yourself having trouble what you need to do is make friends with people in the class. it can be hard to understand the material depending on how the professors present it, therefore the best thing you can do other than asking the professor (because it's hard to get to downtown offices hours as a freshman) is to ask your friends! organize meetings where you can all get together and do some homework/ projects if you get a big enough group someone is bound to understand it. if no one understands the programming, or you cant find anyone who does, then another thing you could do is as someone who is going into computer sciences, most CIS majors that i know have had highschool programming classes, and/or tried programming at home, they can help a lot!

this tips come from me, a person currently in the class who is having a much easier time than most of my friends in the class. 

PS: if you are currently in the class and having trouble with programming i can help, just send me a message and i can either try to explain some of it to you, or if my group of friends decides to meet to work on stuff i can invite you to it.
You're not in the engineering college yet mate, you have to apply for it. You're just taking engineering classes. That said. Make tons of friends. Anyone that can help you with a program or design is incredibly useful. First year is mainly about learning the basics and then a touch on the design aspect. I'm in my second year and I've changed from a bsee major to physics. But If you need any help or ideas pm man :) hope it works out for you. 
Tip 3 is pretty solid advice no matter what major you are choosing. 

Also, I agree with the comment about C++ and C, but for people who are _just_ starting out with programming, I'd recommend a more forgiving language like maybe Python or even R. Start simple, learn generic programming concepts and then make the leap to C/C++. 
Seconding the offer for help, I'm taking 106 right now and I've seen a ton of people in my class struggle with Arduino C. TBH I feel like not nearly enough time was spent in our class on coding, and people who were starting fresh got left behind real quick. I've got some prior experience with C and C++, and Arduino C is really just like a baby's-first flavor of C. So yeah hit me up if you've got trouble with it, I'll try to help you out!
Here's my advice: if you can't learn the concepts as they're introduced in the first semester of engineering, you may need to reconsider your major. It only gets harder as you go on. You're also only in one engineering class right now. You will never have that few ever again. 

Be careful giving advice as a first semester student. Let those kids who are struggling switch to another major before they invest more time in a program that only gets harder. 

Tip 3 is golden, though. Have at least a few people's numbers for late night homework questions. 
Engineering aside, I recommend that **everyone** take a programming course in high school. It's such an invaluable skill to have and the logical processes behind it will come in hand in countless situations down the road. 
Ya I see freshmen make the "college of" mistake all the time. Its especially true with engineering and medicine since they're competitive as fuck and there's a big chance of getting denied. 
i'd beg the differ, i did not apply to GVSU as most other people did, i applied to the GVSU engineering college, and on my path it even says that i am in the "Padnos Col of Egr & Computing" on my path. Additionally when they gave us our RFID entry cards they said "you will keep these with you until you graduate from, or drop out of the engineering college."
I have no idea why you are being downvoted on this, because you are absolutely right. 
yeah, you go to GVSU until you get accepted.
Same here,  accept I am in CS.  The admittance they're talking about is the second admit once you get your core done.
Wtf is this writing style 


Someone sign this girl up for some writing courses please.. This is brutal 
Why is the Odyssey a thing now? What does it even try to do?
No idea. It's like localized Buzzfeed.
It's so shitty, too. At least the Black Sheep has some good, original content.
Let's be honest, they're both incredibly mediocre. 
The Odyssey feels like a tumblr blog though lol.  
GVSU taking biased incidents seriously is one of the reasons I like the school. I also feel that professors shouldn't make stereotypical comments that make students feel uncomfortable. 

Both of their red flags seem to be good things to me. This isn't a state that people can be born into, this is a educational institution that people join willingly.
I think these red flags are only "limiting" if/when applied in overly sensitive cases. For example, if a student were to get a boatload of homework and therefore deem the situation as "lame", technically this could be reported as offensive as the term is 'able-ist'.

Otherwise I don't see these as particularly big threats to my free speech.
Is it nonsensical to have policies limiting bias and hate speech? If you're concerned about not publicly being able to be a racist asshole, then find a different college, bud.
Also, the supreme court's current status on free speech [here](http://www.uscourts.gov/EducationalResources/ClassroomActivities/FirstAmendment/WhatDoesFreeSpeechMean.aspx) states that 
>To incite actions that would harm others (e.g. “[S]hout[ing] ‘fire’ in a crowded theater.”).

is not considered free speech. I would say that words based on the criteria of a bias incident using language could be considered and action that has the potential to cause a considerable amount of harm.
Come on. They're weren't threatened with arrest for passing out the constitution. They were nearly arrested because they didn't follow the proper procedures to use the free speech zone. These are not the same things. 
One day old account and all it's posted is links to this article in multiple subreddits including t_d
A couple things strike me as funny about this video and situation in general.

1. The offender is talking in circular logic. He is being told directly what he can and can't do and is being asked questions, but is just repeating the same line.

2. This confrontation apparently last for quite a while (1+ hours), why is there only 2 minutes of highly cropped footage.

3. The officer asks, "Your making a movie right?" The footage is then cropped to remove anything further on that subject. That part is especially funny, because the GVSU Dept. of Communications has an entire process you need to go through in order to record anything on campus. Sure that can't really be enforced if you're not a student, but if you ARE a student, I imagine there are a couple things they could do.

4. These "Orwellian" free speech policies are hardly that. The approval process appears to be lenient (having been screamed at by conservative loons about burning in hell for eternity), so the vetting process appears to be less about controlling speech, and more so about making sure no one is advocating for school shootings or something insane like that.

5. I actually believe the two free speech zones are for the best, with maybe the addition of a third one downtown. ".03% of campus" may be a fair estimate of land actually owned by Grand Valley, but those two spots are the #1 and #2 most trafficked areas. What percentage of students walks through these areas. In addition, if I'm a stressed out student just trying to pass my classes, maybe, just maybe, I don't want to have political, social, economic, and religious philosophies being screamed at me everywhere I go.

6. No one cares about your anecdotal evidence. "I saw a liberal march, so its biased." Well, I haven't seen a liberal march, so as far as I can tell, its not biased. There problem solved. Get some actual documentation of this stuff if you expect me to care.
 
In the end, this whole lawsuit is garbage. No one is going to support you if it makes them feel like your wasting university time and money, and thus their own time and money. If you want the university to change set up a large scale protest. Social media is a hell of a thing; college students are way more interested in political activism than litigation.

Also, /u/jozefbem is an obvious shill account. "Patriotic students threatened with arrest for handing out pocket constitutions at GVSU" posted to the donald? Please, this whole incident gave off a sovereign citizen vibe.

In addition, if you REALLY want a good chuckle, venture down into the comment section of the article for a good laugh.

"I would have forced the cops to arrest me and Trespass me from College that I am paying for... Watch them try to explain that trick to a Federal Judge."

I agree. I'd pay big bucks to watch that play out.

"Socialism is/has taken over the educational system. You need to get permission to do everything from the politburo. Your rights and liberties are a thing of the past."

I forgot the part where a socio-economic system was directly related to concepts of free speech and constitutional rights.
The officer and the policies he's explained seem very reasonable. Seems like these students are making mountains out of mole hills
Yes they were.  GVSU constantly let liberal groups on campus protest outside of free speech zones to their hearts content.  They have arrested / threatened to arrest people who do not adhere to their agenda. 

The school should try following the rules - like the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.
You'll eat your words when GVSU loses the suit in federal court.
Being threatened with arrest for exercising your rights is "making mountains out of mole hills?"
For the sake of argument let's pretend that what you're saying is accurate. You're entire argument here is that two wrongs make a right? Those people who I don't like broke a rule so I get too as well is just a silly argument to make. 
They were not following the policies. It's not abnormal to have free speech zones and limits on solicitation, especially on a campus. There's a point when it becomes trespassing. 
Has anyone ever taken Microbiology, BMS 212, with Derek Thomas? Or possibly Microbiology in general at GV, as I'm sure all their finals are similar. Any pointers or things to focus on for the final? Did they curve the grade at all in the end? I need all the help I can get! 

Thanks GV redditors! And good luck on your finals. 
I had BMS 212 with Thomas last year during the winter semester (so, exactly a year ago). 

As I recall, the final was ~130 MC questions (which seemed INSANE because we only have 110 minutes--I hope that he realized his mistake in that). It was about 2/3 stuff from the unit we had just learned, and then 1/3 cumulative. I remember feeling disappointed because I spent a fair amount of time learning every detail of every virus, and there weren't that many virus questions on there (a big chunk of our last unit was viruses). The cumulative questions were not exact questions from previous exams, but were similar. There were not many questions from the first exam unit. I also think there may have been a few extra credit questions, but could be getting it confused with another exam. 

I can't remember if he curved the final grades or not. He may have replaced a low normal exam grade with the final exam grade if it was higher. Again, I can't exactly recall. 

It was a difficult exam, but nothing groundbreaking. I found it to be a little bit easier than his normal exams. The format may have changed since then. Pay attention to the study guide I'm sure he gave out--each study guide he gave us was so detailed, he really made it clear what he expected us to know. It's a lot of stuff, but some of it you'll also be learning in other classes (BMS 291, biochem (232 or 461), BIO 355, etc) so if you cement it now it will be like a review later on. Good luck! 
Thanks for the tips! We actually have 150 questions on the test and only 1/3 is from the most recent material. So we'll see how rushed I am during the test. 
Thanks again. 
Hello r/GVSU

My name is Nick Raak and I am running to be re-elected to GVSU Student Senate, and I am asking for your vote. If elected, I promise to:

\- Advocate for better funding for GVSU. With better funding, students can have better access to university resources (like the infamously terrible parking) while avoiding the cost.

\- Increase civic engagement for students. Especially with the 2020 elections coming up, it's important to get better participation among students regardless of their political affiliation. I've already been working on this with [a bill unanimously passed this month](https://www.gvsu.edu/cms4/asset/68CD24DD-C5CE-ACD3-A1C4698B1764F93F/s-20-03__urge_grand_valley_state_university_to_amend_the_class_attendance_policy_to_allow_excused_absences_for_voting.pdf) to urge GVSU to implement an excused absence policy to voting. 

\- Keep the university accountable to the students. It's important to advocate for the entire student body by working with GVSU administration to improve transparency and communication.

If you agree with my platform and want real change for GVSU, vote for me

Students are given 10 votes, so feel free to vote for whoever else you like. Voting ends Sept. 20.

To learn more about me, [click this link](https://www.gvsu.edu/studentsenate/meet-the-candidates-123.htm?recordId_1=48A8F8AB-A3BC-2D75-3D3CB50ABE1B7A68#1BB436A3-A938-F98F-B1B8385F6145BAE1).

To vote, [click this link](https://www.gvsu.edu/studentsenate/vote).
What's your sapply test result
Voted
X: 3.6
Y: 3.3
Progressive: 4.4
Has anyone noticed some of their online 2020 courses have switched to online. I signed up for in person classes that meet weekly during registration in May and recently noticed that a few of those same courses no longer list in person times but rather online times. Is this an error in the system or on my part, or has GVSU started moving some courses online without notice. Thanks!
Yep we will all know what our new schedules are by the end of July. They’re going to notify us when they’re done making the changes in banner
To allow for proper social distancing in classrooms, they can’t have as large a class as normal, leading to need more hybrid/online courses. They are trying to balance student preferences with proper safety measures.
They started updating banner around the end of June (no warning). I think they're planning on releasing information once the registration hold ends on the 13th.
I registered today and most of the classes are online and some meet on campus on specific dates...
yeah four of my five classes switched to online or hybrid and I only got an email about it for one class over a month ago. The rest I found out about on my own recently.
Right. Didn't realize they were switching courses to online. The registrar said that in person classes would not be affected.
Yeah...I saw that. I didn't realize they were changing the schedule that much though. Thanks
I guess you mileage may vary. Only 2 of my classes got switched. Im waiting for the other shoe to drop though especially with schools like Harvard and MIT going online.
I've been at GVSU for an embarrassingly long time, and I've never had a bad experience with DPS. Sure, sometimes they fail to unlock the building I work in on weekends, but it's usually because they're tied up with something urgent. All of my personal interactions with DPS officers have been polite and professional, so I always wonder what the problem is when I see/hear complaints about DPS like this.
I believe what OP is referring to is the "party patrol" on weekends. 

This "party patrol" is funded with grants from the Michigan Office of Highway Safety and Planning. Their sole purpose is to give kids MIPs. Seriously. The program is called "Get Wasted, Get Busted."
Have that much trouble with them? Care for an explanation?
Multiple MIP recipient reporting in. Yes, they are that bad. DPS/GVPD + Judge Post = very expensive 
Agreed. When I locked my keys in the car, they dispatched an officer to let me in. When she didn't have the proper tools with her, she stayed and made small-talk with me until someone with the right equipment showed up. They let me in and I was on my merry way.
Room for rent at Off Broadway Apartments. Close to downtown, great window view. Windows in living room provide excellent light. Apartment in excellent condition, close to GVSU. Good sized room, walk in closet, carpeted. Water, sewer, trash, parking included in rent. Tenant pays electric, monthly cost is typically $50-70 , stove and heat are electric. You will have 3 roommates. Because it is dorm style there will be new roommates for this new lease term. The lease is 12 months but may be ended early by finding a sub-letter if desired.
If you need an internship for CIS 490/499, or otherwise, I'm interviewing candidates who know ruby or a comparable language for a rails internship at [FoodCircles](http://joinfoodcircles.org).

* internship is unpaid but credit-approved
* The app is built on rails and lets you pay $1+ for a special dish at one of 20 restaurants and give 100% of that to feeding a local child in need (fulfilled through our distribution partner)
* Our stack is based on git, a public GH repo, and linux vps hosting

Contributions will include tracking usage patterns, helping new nonprofits partner with us, letting users send dishes to friends, etc.  Weekly meetups downtown and a crew of volunteers to work alongside.

I work in coordination with CEI and would love to chat if it interests ya.  Thanks to GVSU_Nate for the tip to post up here. Enjoy the snow day and throw a snowball for me!
Anybody that's been through either the CS or IS program at GVSU should not be accepting an un-paid internship. Your skills are valuable and there are plenty of employers that will pay you what you deserve, even as an intern.
I hear ya spares. If there's a better option out there for students still looking, by all means.
Wishing we had the funding for it! Best of luck to all candidates seeking..
It'll break my heart to keep perusing this subreddit but I'll probably keep doing it. It's been a fun 4 years.
Graduating in 4 years is like leaving a party at 10:00.

You should stick around!
Same.
Me too! Congratulations! :)
Hahaha graduating in 4 years OMG. (I'm just jealous). 
Hahaha graduating in 4 years OMG. (I'm just jealous). 
you're right, i'm doing it
I was in a sociology capstone course with some of these guys. They're certainly on the very left wing of the political spectrum, and I argued against a lot of their anarchist perspectives, but they bring up valid points about The Rapid shifting the retirement burden from the corporation to the workers to make up for pension shortfalls of $2.7 million. 

Here's an m-live article about it:

http://www.mlive.com/news/grand-rapids/index.ssf/2015/10/rapid_bus_pension.html
This video made my head hurt, these guys followed around a group of EXTREME left wing idiots (about 15 people out of a 20,000 student college) for a day and accomplished what? I could go to a tea party rally and create a video that would be just as ridiculous as this one. 
Weird that this is literally the first time Ive heard of this protest on campus 
I thought it was funny how they were going to protest with a bunch of drivers, but no one showed up.  
I actually graduated a couple years ago and spent all of my time at the downtown business school for the last two years of my time at GV. So I didn't have to deal with all the gender study/safe space bs in Allendale. I stumbled across the video and was surprised to find there are full blown communist aligned organizations on campus. Thought I would drop it on the GVSU sub to see what the response would be. This must not be a very lively sub.
it isn't
Boston University Is First To Announce It May Postpone Its Fall Term Until January 2021
https://www.forbes.com/sites/susanadams/2020/04/13/boston-university-is-first-to-announce-it-may-postpone-its-fall-term-until-january-2021/
As people start talking about tuition reduction we have to realize that we are lucky that GV is planning to stay open. We also have to realize that GV is a tuition driven school. It received only about 13% of its funding from the state this fiscal year. BU is a private top research university. It has many more options than GV. 

 GV will make it through this time but it will be required to change faster than ever before. To address change we will all need to stay abreast about the moves being made by other institutions, as well as many other variables.
I guess I’ll go for a run 🙃
U can run but u cant hide from it...muahaha
I think this is hilarious that his quote says that "facts don't care about your feelings" when republicans don't care about [facts](https://youtu.be/xnhJWusyj4I) 
It hasn't been approved with the stamp either. So you can actually take these down. It's the physical equivalent to spam.
What is this for? The paper is so vague
I've seen these posters plastered everywhere around campus, and I still only know of Ben Shapiro as some headass that alt-righters beat off to. 
Like you're allowed to have an opinion and you're allowed to present your opinion to an audience, but don't be a goddamn fuck about it.  I saw these flyers taking over a bulletin board in mack the other day
Quote from r/enoughtrumpspam:

> You know, facts doesn't matter, it's about feelings. I feel that white people are oppressed and crime is going up. I just feel it.
Really? I didn't realize that there needed to be an approval stamp on bulletins. I'd seen them before, but that's a pretty neat system.
This is really valuable information, thanks! 
yeah I don't know what's happening either and it doesn't look bad though. I mean it mentions the left but I don't see how he's an idiot?
He speaks at colleges a lot.  An alt-right supporter.  His spiel in a nutshell is that facts invalidate your hurt feelings, and if your feelings are hurt, you clearly don't know facts or do research.  

He basically tells you that if you know facts, you're not entitled to having your feelings hurt.  

In a more modern/social sense: "Blacks commit crime the most crime, here are the stats that show this, so you can't be upset that police give you shit for being black."
If you knew what the alt right actually was or anything about ben, you'd know that he is actually hated by the alt right and despises them as well. They tweet their hatred for him quite often. So, no actually they don't beat off to him. That's weird.
Yeah after so long, they are taken down. They only have a like a 2-3 week period that they can be up even with the stamp.
Actually, if you have ever listened to anything shapiro has said you would know he hates the alt right and the alt right Hates him. He's constantly getting tweeted racist things and threats from alt righters and speaks out against them on a daily basis. Also the rest of your statement doesn't need to be commented on since the first thing you said clearly identifies that you have no idea who ben shapiro is.
he's not alright genius.

he's never said for black's to disregard the fact that we/they're being shot by the police. If anything, he's stating that we wants them to acknowledge their hypocrisy.

lol.

but, i'm sure a jew is loved by the altright /s
When I took Moes for Philosophy of Religion, he constantly talked shit about being an atheist. Phrases such as "So-and-so was an atheist. I always thought they were smarter than that." were common.
Sounds pretty straight forward to me. Moes has a reputation for being an upstanding Catholic, and some of his work involves his religion. The second case seems inappropriate too. It's not really the role of an educator to expouse political or social opinions whether they be conservative or liberal. Granted, conservatives get in trouble for this more than their counterparts (When I was in Lib Arts classes, I heard more political opinions from professors than was welcome), but nobody here is being censored from anything were welcome to say in the first place. 

Both professors will probably get a slap on the wrist if they're tenured like Moes is, and told to keep their opinions in their pocket. 
Less so the silencing of opinions such much as addressing unwarranted discussion in the classroom environment. It is appropriate for students to be upset at professors for irrelevant political/social/religious discussion, just like I would expect students to be upset at their peers if they tried to force their unwarranted opinions into a discussion.
Looking for Stewart Calc, all levels, Multivariable.  Also, Diff Eq, basic Eng like Statics, Basic Electric, and Linear Alg.

Basically these books which are not worth trading in or selling.
All I want to know is the ranking of specified places that were asked in the survey. Thanks and good luck!
Starts at 3:37. Or you can watch the video because it's pretty interesting.

Edit: Sorry I guess the URL didn't work. Here it is:

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZHFcdouE06s&feature=player_embedded#!
What video might that be?
Wow. That hurt.
When submitting a link - do not click the text tab, my roommate did this on a post a few days ago and was quite confused. Also, this is probably worse than the meme page on facebook...
Oh sorry I've never submitted a link before =/ 

Here it is:

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZHFcdouE06s&feature=player_embedded#!
Thanks, and yeah, you're right - complete misuse of memes.
Question for Finance majors - Is a D- considered a passing grade for Finance?

I know Accounting major requires a C- or better for accounting courses, but I don’t see anything like that for finance. 

Plz lmk so I know if I can half ass the rest of my finance class this semester to graduate lol. Thanks.
I’ve never heard a D- be passing for anything. 

>	Plz lmk so I know if I can half ass the rest of my finance classes this semester to graduate lol. Thanks.

Wat
D- is definitely not passing lol
I’ve never heard of a D- being passing.
It would be very difficult to find ANY major that considers D to be a passing grade
Wait wait wait. You’ve had a d- for 13 weeks presumably giving more than half-ass effort, and you want to half-ass now? Bust your ass to get a c-
D- isn’t a grade at GVSU. It’s D or F. Source: I’m a prof who enters grades into Banner on the regular.
Definitely would not hire anyone of any major trying to slide by with D- lol
I earned a D- (it happens) in a class and transferred all my classes over to GV without an issue. Not sure if that helps.
If you were attending MSU, or one of the other state universities that allow students to elect P/F after grades are posted with a D being considered a passing grade, you would pass.  GVSU’s administration must not care what most other state universities are doing, or just wants to make more money from students repeating classes and extending their education
Holy judgey in this thread right now. I’ve got a C in the class right now. I’m also taking 18 credits this semester on top of 30+ hours of work a week. I have a job lined up after graduation so what’s the fuss with me wanting to half ass to focus more on my future career (and my 5 other classes). Unreal how quick some of you jump to conclusions. All you did in your reply was judge and arrive at conclusions for no reason. 3.5 Seidman GPA accounting and finance major working every day all 4 years to pay for my classes. Get the fuck out of here telling me to bust my ass - Take your goofy ass elsewhere.
Yeah I got told the same thing when I asked advisor and undergrad program haha oops
Thanks for being the only person to show kindness
Nah I talked to advisors and professors and every person in here is dead wrong. A D is a passing grade at GVSU.
I did make some huge assumptions there lol. I apologize for that. It’s not my place to give unsolicited advice and I hope you’re able to get a passing grade in the class (whatever that may be). 

Also, just tell me to GFMY. You don’t owe me any explanation on whatever your grades may or may not be.
Yeah idk why everyone’s being so negative. They could’ve chose a million different ways to respond. Grades don’t define us character does.
If you chose P/F or credit/no credit at GV with the cutoff date to make this decision 2 weeks into the semester you have to get a C or better to receive credit.  Yes, D is considered passing but would not be if one chose the credit/no credit option.
No need for me to say that to you. It takes a man to admit when he has done something wrong (I struggle with it myself) so you have all my respect. I’m also sorry if my response to you was aggressive.
Yup. And it’s the fact that I’ve been struggling mentally from the nonstop grind this past year has been for me, and all I wanted was to find solace to know if my grade dropped below a C that I would still pass and graduate. This world (and specifically GVSU students) lack decency and character nowadays.
Right. I’m not even concerned about GPA. I’ve got a 3.5 and I could care less bc I have job lined up. I just wanted to make sure I’d still receive credit for the course with a D
Oh I feel ya. Don’t give up though. There’s better days ahead!
I wonder what were they arrested for? Just having a weapon does not necessarily break any laws.
BB gun lol. 
It sounds like he was wanted for unrelated crimes. 
Connected to the wifi cause it can take up to 72-hours to register my computer apparently. My speeds are all over the place, I'll get 1 mb download with 2 mb upload, re-test my net and end up with 1.7 mb download and 11 mb upload. The fuck is this shit...

*edit*  Whoops, meant mb not gb. 
Use Ethernet, it will be very stable. Also, try using alternative wireless networks, such as GVGuest or eduroam (both will accept your regular school account, but use your full email address for eduroam). The problems you're seeing are from congestion add all students come back to campus. It will improve in a week or two.
Welcome to GV's WiFi. I loved my years there, but not the internet. 
Where can I sign up?! 
Thanks for the suggestion, but even with my ethernet cable my connection fluctuates like crazy. I just hope it evens out by next week...
I assume they were significantly more extreme than before. Last year it was just an old guy with a sign who didnt say much. There is a pretty clear line between free speech and hate speech. Whether or not I'm interested in hearing about repenting my sins its not hate speech and should be allowed. But these stories of the people laughing at suicide, judgement based on how these people look or sexual orientation, and deliberately being rude for no other reason that to get people angry could easily be described at hate speech. 

Its easy to ignore a sign as per the articles suggestion, its hard to ignore a personal attack. 
The account described in the article (assuming it is completely accurate), is not just this religious group exercising its First Amendment right to free speech. This is flat out verbal abuse. There is a moral obligation that GVSU has to protect all of its students from being verbally accosted by roaming bands of religious zealots. Grand Valley should absolutely be doing more to protect students from this Constitutionally protected brand of bullying instead of cowering behind their lawyers.
For those interested, here's a [link](http://www.skepticmoney.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/Brother-Jed-Bingo-Card-1-01.png) to "Brother Jed Bingo" 
There is no line. Hate speech *is* free speech. You don't have to like it, but you can't deny a person's right to speak their mind.
It is. I'm the girl in the article, and all I did was address the students. I told them that the photos Brother Jed was taking are put online to gather donations, and the woman started screaming after me. I tuned her out and kept walking, so I didn't hear a lot of what she said about me, but students came up after me and told me. I guess she got pretty extreme. Someone told me I was thr fourth person she told that they were going to commit suicide. Another girl said the woman told her her over eating was a sin, and I saw another girl standing on the side lines get called a green haired whore. 
Actually you can.
Yeah, there's multiple religious groups that hold signs. If you see a woman waving menstrual pads around and a man taking photos, it's probably brother Jed. 
I really don't understand the hatred for DPS. I've interacted with them numerous times, and they've always been courteous and professional, even when they caught me snooping around somewhere I shouldn't have been. The worst they've ever done by me is fail to unlock the building I work in on weekends.

If somebody has had a bad experience with DPS, there's a good chance that they were doing something stupid and/or illegal.
It isn't a moral argument at all.  Under 21 it is illegal to be intoxicated. ~~A person is considered an open container.~~ Minor in possession. So don't break the law?

Fuck, a few of the cops I knew (and still know) at GVSU hate writing people for pot because they don't think it should be illegal, but they do their jobs. Personally I'm for no drinking age and legalize all drugs, but I respect the officers who do their jobs. They aren't sending a message to drive yourself, they are sending a message 'we do our jobs'.

People, it isn't just youth, have a problem with officers for enforcing the laws that are enacted by the legislature they vote for. Change the law, don't beat up on the people enforcing them because you don't agree with the law. (And I'm not accepting arguments about 'just following orders', these cops are not Nazis.)

Edit: Wrong wording.
Seeing as we will not convince each other I bid you good day on this first night of snowfall in beautiful west Michigan.

Night.
Where the fuck is his helmet???
How many subs did you post this too?
haha... I always ride with one now!
eh... a few. how much is that frowned upon? reddit-beginner here...
My ex boyfriend's cousin took a tumble while snowboarding a couple of years ago. She wasn't wearing a helmet, and her brain exploded and was leaking out of every orifice in her head. Her poor friends that witnessed this. :( I will never not wear a helmet again. 
You're doing fine sport. Gotta get dat karma! 
Very sorry to hear that. I can't imagine taking my board out without my helmet now.
It will probably be available to watch online at a later time. 
Bribery?  Seems to be just an incentive to get more people to help out a cause.  

Besides, you're supposed to eat and drink after donating anyways.  Every blood drive will (or should) have snacks and drinks for after you donate.
This is very common and a great partnership that MI blood has worked out with Papa John's. Having eaten over a dozen blood pizzas myself it has paid off many times.
Lol freshmen
Blood pizzas are the best pizzas

I know. I just thought it was funny how many times they wrote 'pizza' on the form living up to the college stereotype 
This has been going on for many years. It makes sense.
Not sure they are on here. But call up the new chief, she will sit down and talk with you or answer any questions you have. 
If you have any questions, people might be able to help answer them on here.  Some of us may have worked there in the past
Since coming to this university, it's almost like everyone I've come into contact with is strictly conservative. I don't stick with a certain mold of thinking and hold different views on topics, guess I'm just wondering where other people like that are? 


It's western Michigan, what did you expect? Honestly, there are as many liberals are there are righties at GVSU. Maybe you're looking in the wrong places? 
In my time at GV, it's been less of a "Right vs Left" thing and more of a "Wow, I can't believe how ignorant or apathetic everyone is" thing.
Odd, as nearly every person I've come into contact with in one of my gen ed classes was loudly and emphatically liberal about everything.
I attended GV from 06-10. Honestly , it's more apparent freshman year how religious/conservative some people are there. Once you get out of the dorms, you'll find lots of pretty cool, open minded people. I'm honestly not surprised this is still so frequent now; even with the recent popularity of the university.
It's caused by a severe lack of pancake mix amongst religious folk:

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qwyZ0ji1GRU
Since moving into downtown GR, I have met so many more left minded people from GV. Just an observation
On a county-by-county basis, the [Michigan] county which contributes the most students to GVSU is Kent County (part of the Grand Rapids metro area, and home to the city of Grand Rapids). 

Kent County is a "blue" county, but not by much. It went Obama over Romney in the last election (barely). 

Other counties in the Grand Rapids metropolitan area include Barry County, Montcalm County, and Ottawa County. Depending on who's doing the classification, sometimes Allegan County, Muskegon County, and Ionia County are also included. 

**So, for the Grand Rapids metro area, we have:** 

* **Kent County = Blue** 
* Barry County = Red 
* Montcalm County = Red 
* Ionia County = Red 
* **Muskegon County = Blue** 
* Allegan County = Red 
* Ottawa County = Red 

So, with 5 out of 7 Grand Rapids-area counties "red", you can see why most people think of West Michigan as being conservative. 

*Much of this data is from the 2010 census and/or the 2012 presidential election    

Most people who analyze this data would attribute the "blue" status of Muskegon County as being due to their high minority population. 

Most people who analyze this data would attribute the "blue" status of Kent County as being due to the fact that it's home to the city of Grand Rapids, which means high education levels, a diverse populous, and a young, urban core. 

Now, behind Kent County, the Michigan county that contributes the 2nd most students to GVSU is Oakland County, part of the metro Detroit area. 

According to 2012 presidential election data, Oakland County is also a "blue" county (as all of the other counties in the metro Detroit area: Wayne, Monroe, Macomb, etc...) 

Anyway, what I'm getting at here is that the 2 counties that contribute the most students to GVSU (Kent and Oakland) are both left-leaning counties...so it always surprises me when people think of the GVSU student body as being conservative. 



The stereotype coming to GVSU was that the area was conservative but the school was liberal. What I found when I got here was that the area I grew up in (Livingston County in SE Michigan) was more conservative than the GR area (at least in my experience). Surprisingly, the students that I met from Grand Haven were some of the most liberal people that I met during my freshman year (one was an outspoken socialist).   
It's Grand Rapids, just look at how the area votes. 
GVSU is pretty liberal. 
Lots of religious people.
Its something I never noticed while growing up here. Then I did my undergrad at central and came back for grad and I couldn't believe how crazy people were around here.
I just deleted my original comment halfway through out of apathy. Whoops.
This
It's incredibly subjective. Conservatives will say it's super liberal, and liberals say it's very conservative.

 To be honest though, I do not see the conservative side. There is an LGBT center on campus for crying out loud. There are always movements (occupy the valley for example) and organizations that are aimed to liberals. I guess something is making people call us a conservative campus. Im not seeing the reasoning though. 
My girlfriend has family in Mount Pleasant. Between visiting friends at CMU and visiting her family, I can honestly say that Mt. P is one of the crazier places in Michigan in regard to the people that congregate there. 
anyone going? i kinda need a ride
I think your title is misleading.

Heart damage possibly linked to Covid would be better.

They don’t know what these athletes hearts looked like before Covid.
Hello! Just moved here recently in the fall, and people told me this place was very strict about smoking and drinking does anyone know of any places around Allendale campus to smoke? Thank you so much
Depends on what you’re smoking
Walk off campus and then back on campus
Is GV a smoke free campus now? Or are we talking about Jazz Cabbage?
In the woods is really the only risk free place
Go out on the trail behind GVA
Those basketball courts behind Holton Hooker is an ideal spot to smoke. Used to smoke there all the time as a freshman... I’m assuming you’re talking about weed. 

Otherwise, build a sploof and smoke in your bathroom if ur roommates/suitemates are chill. Did this all the time. 

If the cops come knocking get any paraphernalia out of sight, step out into the hall and do not let them in. They’ll threaten you over and over, but they can’t really do shit.
Just do the towel under the bathroom (if you have a personal one) door trick if you're that worried. Pot smoke doesn't linger anywhere near as bad as cigarettes in the slightest. I used to do it out my window, but I was off the ground and did it quietly so while it did smell outside, no one knew where it was coming from. 

No matter what you do, if you're still worried, take a piece of dryer fabric softener, and use a rubber band to affix it to the end of a paper towel roll, the breathe your smoke out thru that
Drugs r illegal
Was always a big fan of the ole towel under the bathroom door trick, turn on the fan and you'll be Gucci
Towel under the bathroom door doesn't work. And bathroom doesn't work. If there isn't a window then you shouldnt of it in that area if your doing it inside. Ik forsure bc I had a roomates do it, and it had the apartment and everyone else in the apartment's room smelling. So ole bathroom trick does not work in these apartments or dorms.
Ravines, d lot, golf course... But honestly you can smoke any where on campus during the day.  Used to smoke spilfs on the way to class.  In reality GVPD is extremely lenient compared to real police.
Except they aren't anymore.
For the record, GVPD are real police, fully licensed by the state. In fact, they're the most thoroughly trained in Ottawa County. They are the primary law enforcement within the Allendale campus (and the downtown campus during business hours).
On the way to class? U serious? Wow Man U got some balls
Except they are, federal law bud.
Yea but like my post says they're pretty lenient.. especially when  compared to Ottawa.
Just don't act like you're smoking weed and you blend right in.. no one ever even asked for a hit
Lol don't get so salty i'm just stating facts bud, i didn't say anyone gives a shit now did i?
Okbuddy
Who the heck robs college kids? We're all broke. 
What happened was the police department got a new captain. She looks into they laws and GVSU was lagging behind in what they were supposed to be telling students in terms of threats. Thus to bring us up to code with the law we get notified when anything happens. The same crimes that have happened before are happening now and now we are just more aware of the crimes that take place on campus. No need to be any more afraid than you were last year
I was saying almost a month ago that we've had more shit go down so this year than all of last year combined. I bet those emergency buttons start to be put around campus in the next few years.

That being said it was shocking how low it has been in the past, so I'm not sure if that means it didnt exist in the past, or if the school is actually bothering to tell us about it now.
Honestly I think stuff like this has happened before it is just unreported publicly. Look up the reports GVPD has put out of all campus crime and you'd be surprised everything that's happened. And this is only the stuff reported. 

It has always been prevalent it is just the information and notifications of these crimes are now sent publicly. 
Ya, if they took the valuables they'd  just end up with a bunch of old MacBooks and Ugg boots. 
They might not have a lot of cash on hand but near everyone walks around with a pricey computer in their backpacks and an iPhone in their pocket. College kids are not in poverty by any means. 
So what I got from this... We had a captain that didn't follow the law. 
We've had the emergency text/call/email system for ~8 years
Right because gifts aren't a thing and poverty can't happen extremely quickly...
http://media0.giphy.com/media/PS7d4tm1Hq6Sk/giphy.gif
True but it is only now being used much more frequently on things like these robberies as opposed to if there's a tornado in the area.
And the crime reports they post annually were still really low. My mother is health and safety coordinator at UM Flint, she said that this campus was one of the best in the state.
Who's buying them these gifts? Parents. Most college kids have strong support from their parents (most, not all), especially in an area like West Michigan. Poverty is a living situation. Those who are impoverished are surrounded by a complete lack of basic human needs with little hope of getting out. There very well may be students on campus coming from impoverished areas, namely Detroit and Chicago, who see us as easy money. 

What I'm really saying is that we are extremely fortunate to be living and going to school in this area. Don't play yourself down as broke when we are at the top of the food chain. 
Yep. Just because we've had the emergency system, doesn't mean that it was being used to inform students of crimes.

I also think it's worth noting the influx in students over the last four years. Freshmen are being put in off-campus housing. It was a requirement when I was a freshman to live in GVSU freshman housing.
I have said this before and I will say it again, I would rather it be two hours with the facts and investigation straight instead of creating unnecessary hysteria. 
GVSU Pew sits right next to two major pedestrian river crossings between Downtown and the West Side. This funnels people right next to/through campus. Inherently there will be all sorts of people walking through that corridor at all hours of the day. 
Seriously does gvsu need to email you the second someone SUSPECTS someone has a weapon or is being shady?  Let the police do there job and if there's a threat then they'll tell you but seriously chill the fuck out you act like there was someone shooting up the school and they didn't tell you 
GV clearly labeled the message as a timely one. So it's cool.
Update: 

This man has now been arrested: [Link](https://twitter.com/GVSUPolice/status/522813913348714497)

 
With so many students from Detroit who go here I thought you all would be used to randos with guns. Chill the fuck out everybody, it wasn't some Poindexter with a grudge, just some random street thugs. 
Didn't even realize that. Wow. Thanks for the quick update, GV. Glad to know many of my friends could easily have been walking there at that time. 
Jeff you need to change your flair soon, right? :P
If there's ever a potential live shooter situation on campus, every second counts. 

Sure, send out a full, detailed, factual report later...but I think something brief should have been sent out immediately. 
This man has now been arrested: [Link](https://twitter.com/GVSUPolice/status/522813913348714497)

So yeah, he could have been an innocent passerby within his rights to carry a weapon...but he wasn't. 
This man has now been arrested: [Link](https://twitter.com/GVSUPolice/status/522813913348714497)

So yeah, he could have been an innocent passerby within his rights to carry a weapon...but he wasn't. 
Are you ever gonna change yours? :P
I agree, but the fact this was off campus and probably weren't students it isn't illegal to carry a concealed weapon in the state. This was a matter of informing the masses about what was reported. If the statement was issued immediately those three men who could be doing nothing illegal and fully within their legal rights would have been potential victims of an unnecessary witch hunt. 

However if they started opening fire by all means notify the masses immediately.
Live shooter? I saw "weapon," not "gun."
But don't let the facts get in the way...
Shut up llama
Ya exactly. I read this earlier and I kept waiting for them to list the crimes that he supposedly committed, but obviously there wasn't any.. 



People are acting like having a gun automatically makes him a potential shooter. Might as well start searching cars because I know plenty of kids with their hunting equipment (bows, rifles, etc) in their trunks parked on campus, and they haven't gone on any rampages 
This man has now been arrested: [Link](https://twitter.com/GVSUPolice/status/522813913348714497)

So yeah, he could have been an innocent passerby within his rights to carry a weapon...but he wasn't. 
Man, you are name-dropping so hard in this thread.  That's what T. Haas said, anyway.
This man has now been arrested: [Link](https://twitter.com/GVSUPolice/status/522813913348714497)

So yeah, he could have been an innocent passerby within his rights to carry a weapon...but he wasn't. 
You do realize that was the first time I'd even ever seen the guy
Good idea. Let's just assume he's evil. Who needs cops? Who needs judges and juries? Every non student walking around near GVSU downtown is worthy of suspicion! Arrest 'em all!
Oh, wait... There's that pesky Constitution... You can't just arrest people because they rub you the wrong way. Just because this guy was potentially up to no good doesn't mean they all will be, nor was this guy an "active shooter" or anything of the sort. His proximity to GVSU was merely a coincidence and had no direct connection to GVSU. 
Good idea. Let's just assume he's evil. Who needs cops? Who needs judges and juries? Every non student walking around near GVSU downtown is worthy of suspicion! Arrest 'em all!
Oh, wait... There's that pesky Constitution... You can't just arrest people because they rub you the wrong way. Just because this guy was potentially up to no good doesn't mean they all will be, nor was this guy an "active shooter" or anything of the sort. His proximity to GVSU was merely a coincidence and had no direct connection to GVSU. 
T. Haas, or Jeff? I've never seen Jeff on reddit before, either, but I've had a number of chill elevator conversations with T. Haas on my deliveries.
T Haas. 
I'll have you know I bought my textbooks and only cried for 20 minutes
If you don't buy from the book store you don't get fucked. It isn't that hard to make your money back if you go on Amazon and sell them when you're done with them.

Just remember to buy online way before classes start.
This post is in violation of intergalactic law.
I’m kind of not serious about it but the sections that fit in my schedule are full. This is what I get for changing my major after registration...
Email someone who is teaching psy 300, they're usually pretty flexible with an add. I would probably try to get in with Kurby
I tried to do an override, but it got denied. If emailing could be effective, I’d do it.
That's what I've done in the past. A well written email can go a long way
Awesome, Thanks!
So I'm 25 and applying to begin school in winter 2016. I recently caught misdemeanor charges for driving on suspended license, improper transport of medical marijuana, and false information to an officer. 

I don't want to have to select 'yes' on the question about pending charges, fearing this will ruin my chances. I also don't want to wait until it's resolved, as you never know what'll happen in Judge Post's courtroom. If I get sent to jail or something, I may not be able to apply on time. Obviously, lying isn't a good option either.

Just wondering if you nice people have any stories or knowledge that may help me decide how to handle this. Thanks!

EDIT: Advice and opinions are but appreciated but what I really want is solid information.
You might want to get in touch with Admissions to ask about if/how pending charges might hurt your chances. Give them as much or as little information as you're comfortable with. You could even contact them anonymously if you want.
I like the "Ask the office" advice, but I'd say that if they tell you that it could hurt your chances, you should not apply rather than lie.

If you lie, and they look into it through a routine background check, then you hurt your chances potentially in the long term - or, at least, you have to start jumping through a lot more hoops. Better to not apply, let it resolve, and apply to start in the winter semester or even next year. You're 25, what's the harm in one more semester? If it does resolve, you could spend that time auditing a class or two and develop a routine before it starts to actually count.

If you're honest, and they find out what your charges are, being honest and principled does you credit. It wasn't that long ago that we called it Grass Valley; if a weed charge looks bad to them then _they've lost their soul, man_.

I once was on the outs with GVSU. They gave me a second chance and I did well and graduated; there's good people there. Be honest, my thinking is you'll be fine.
you can not take any financial aid if you are convicted of any drug related charges.
Lying should never be an option. You should know this by now, especially at 25. You've seen first hand where lying has gotten you now.

Be a (wo)man and tell the truth, if it doesn't work out the way you wanted it to, at least you will know you did the right thing. Mark yes. You did the crime and should be held responsible for what arises from it.
if you have a medical card you can escape this charge.
Just lie

I look at job applications all the time and as soon as I see someone has checked the box regarding past felony convictions, it raises a red flag. I would wager that no one checks criminal backgrounds for the thousand of applications they receive. It's more likely that they are looking for people to voluntarily filter themselves out.
That is good advice, thank you.
Thank you very much, buddy. This is the type of answer I was looking for.
I hear you and I get that. I'm looking to evaluate real-world experiences though. People lie at other schools and it works out fine. I'm not saying that's the way I want to go, but I do want all the information available to me. I've looked around and seen lawyers advise varying courses of action depending on circumstances. So that's where I'm coming from.

Also, there's a difference between committing a crime and being charged. You don't know anything about me or my situation, so a generic "do the right thing, see where it got you" lecture isn't helpful. It's frankly condescending. I'm not a POS liar who keeps digging myself a deeper hole. Like I said, this is a question people post on legal boards and get a full spectrum of answers.
This is the worst advice one can give.
HAHA, since when is responsibility a high horse? It's called being a human. You get in trouble, then to try and get out of it, you lie again which causes you get get deepen in trouble, you really think the best thing to do it lie again? I feel bad for your parents because they obviously didn't raise you right.
It's the opposite of your advice, so it's obviously the worst possible choice, right?
Dude, you are being kind of a dick. If OP decides to lie,, couldn't (s)he just apply again once the matter is resolved? One option was waiting until it's over although OP was afraid of the timing. It'd be the same thing. IDK if they blacklist you or something, but if not, it's a "what do you have to lose?" option.

I wouldn't recommend lying, but you're being a giant douchebag about it.

OP, along the lines of "what do you have to lose" I'd say just be open about it and apply again if it doesn't work out. I say don't lie, but it wouldn't be as bad as this person is suggesting.
No, believe it or not there have been many instances where I'm wrong, and I would be the first to admit it. In this case, I'm not. Intentionally lying about felonies (in regards to your post only, not the OP) is stupid and could cause a plethora of issues. Again, I'll repeat, intentionally lying is wrong and should not be the go to answer.
That's why I'm asking. I don't want to waste the $100 ordering my SAT, ACT, and transcripts if it's just a shot in the dark. Should I lose my job over these charges, that $100 thrown away would be a big deal.

Like I said, nobody knows my situation so I'm looking for actual experiences to see how things work. Idk if there is a black list either, so that's the type of stuff I want to find out.

You all are too caught up on lying. I just want information.
Your* grammar could also use some improvement.
As a nearly 30yr old person, you should know that the real world doesn't baby people, especially those who are 25. The OP did wrong, lied, got in more trouble and now wants to lie again to try and conceal truths. You want someone (us) to lie to this person so they make the wrong decision?
I'm pretty into longboarding but I haven't met too many people that actually do it, pm me if you want to go boarding sometime!
Theres a brand new paved road really close to my house in west grand rapids. Its a mile long gradual hill. No rocks, bumps, nothing. Just brand new asphalt. 
It goes from Bridge Street and Covell intersection (There's a 50 bus stop there!) to Bridge street and Mt. Mercy Dr. NW, to Valley Ave. Its the best route i've ever ridden. Traffic is minimal as well. It can get a little speedy sometimes, though.
Only longboarders I see on campus are those mongo pushing flip flop wearing ones
Yes. Come join the LBGT club (Long Board Get Together). Just look up GVSU lonboarding on Facebook.
Casual longborder here :) I've been skating for a couple years but never really got into the bombing hills shit. I've only ever really bombed a couple, i'm more into cruising and carving and stuff. I'd be working on more flatground tricks if i had a kicktail.
Yeah. I like to hit up the crew hill across the road from campus to slide. No traffic at all because it's basically a private drive owned by GVSU. I have a drop deck, a cruiser, a penny, and a skateboard so feel free to pm me if you'd like to cruise, slide, or whatever. 
Oh my, I thought I was the only one who noticed this trend.
That's a confusing title. Also, I'd like to get involved but dont have a facebook.
That is dangerously close to LGBT... I had to reread to make sure I was on the right thread. Sounds sweet!
Check out the loaded ceviche, small, great for cruising and tricks. Wouldn't bomb hills with it though.
I was on the rowing (crew) team at GV. You longboarders are annoying. 
How is it for sliding? I'm considering picking up some gloves and trying that out. I was looking at the cantellated tesseract, its got a nice little kicktail for ollies and stuff
Ok?
Honestly, I have no idea. I'm still learning how to slide. I wouldn't imagine it would do well though. The board is short, and kinda tall for its size.
Good talk
I'm going to GVSU in the fall as a freshman and I was wondering about longboarding? I won't have a car my first semester and I was wondering a couple things:

1. How many people longboard there?
2. Is it acceptable there? or do people get peeved off about it?
3. Is there a campus group of longboarders?

Thank all of you for the help! r/gvsu seems to be the most helpful subreddit around!
Yeah, there are TONS of longboarders here. It's definitely acceptable, there's not like a stereotype against longboarders, it's just a person by person judgment (ie: don't be a dick). 
I'm not a long-boarder, and know quite a few people who dislike long-boarders (myself included) - But don't let others opinions stop you from doing what you want to do. There's nothing inherently wrong with it as long as you're courteous.  
Hey there,  there is a group that long boards (at least there was one last year) , check them out at the campus life night.  They usually meet up for some skating and either head out around campus or go to some hills in the area. They also go to a parking garage downtown often. I went a couple times and they were pretty cool. 

Definitely bring it.  It's fun to skate around campus during free time.
Actually there is a longboard club here! 
http://www.facebook.com/groups/112615362130784/?fref=ts
ALSO: do people ride them to class? if so, do they bring them into class with them or lock them up outside or something?
How did this get downvotes? It was a question. who the fuck would downvote a question?
Thanks!
Oh my god almost every longboarder I've seen on campus acts like such an ass. I can't stand 'em. They're all over the sidewalk, barely dodging people... it's terrible.
I'm a loaded fanboy, I'm not ashamed though, they make great boards, I've got the Ceviche and the dervish sama. You?
Also, the school is relatively flat,  but there are some small inclines.  But those get really crowded during passing time so I take the long and less traveled routes to class. Just be curtious to pedestrians and nobody really cares 
Judging by the comments it doesn't seem to be a very well-known group. Maybe just a facebook group? I don't have a facebook.
A lot of people dislike longboarders here because they don't use any courtesy. Most just fly around weaving through (and bumping into) people and don't care.
The was club founded this year I believe.
Well from the comments here I've decided to bring mine, but I'll try my best to stay out of the way!
It's there, there's also one in Grand Rapids that rides together. In the past there has been a fee races. A dash and an endurance one that was at millenium park. I'm pretty sure the group at school is still around. Just check the activity of the Facebook group.
I actually found it my freshman year (i'm now a junior) on the schools organization website link.  They were a pretty big group when i skated with them freshman year.  I haven't been able to do anything with them since however because of school but i know that they all loved to skate and it was a pretty cool group.  You should check them out if you can.

Cool! Thank you!
Yeah, I'm sorry, I'll try to be courteous.
Just stick to the "don't be a dick" rule and you should be ok.
Awesome! I was also looking at getting one of those but it seems incredibly similar to the Dervish Sama.
Again, I don't have a FB.
Ha, no need to be sorry for others' actions. Just don't be like them.
Will do. Thanks!
Yeah, The dorms. the cheap ones. lol hbu?
Oh, well if you decide to get into the dorms, hmu. you seem like a pretty chill roommate.
Cool man, sounds dope.
I think someone should aggregate a list of all the GVSU parody accounts... 

You're probably wondering why I don't do it myself. Well, I'm lazy
The MIP Library is pretty fitting for Grand Valley
there will be a 30 foot fireplace, I'll bring the bear rug. 
Pure gold!
Most of my friends go to different colleges and some of them tell me that GVSU students have a bad rep. One of them said she met the "skankiest of skanks" who went here and others kind of look down on me for going here. I wish I could argue against these points, but honestly most of the time I find myself agreeing that I don't really like my classmates. They tend to be rude, snobby, and think they are much smarter than they actually are (not that I'm ridiculously smart by any means, but they can be condescending). I hate group projects because of this.

I just found this subreddit and looked at the facebook confessions page and it didn't make me feel much better. I was wondering if anyone ever feels the same way? Or if not, I could use some reassurance. I'm a history major and anthro minor so maybe it's just the field I'm in or something...
Everything you mentioned could also be said of other colleges.  There will be sluts, snobs, and douches at every school.  This isn't exclusive to GVSU.
Never. Our school is up and coming, the only people that tend to give me shit are my friends at MSU and UofM. But ever since my group of friends turned 21, when they visit me in Grand Rapids they defiantly sing another song. 
Yeah, I get that a lot to be honest. Fuck 'em. I came here looking to transfer ASAP, but I've decided to stay. There's good communities here, you just have to find them. The same can be said of professors, administrators, etc. 

Also, there's a 95% chance my student org is bringing in Neil DeGrasse Tyson this year, and he won't be going to MSU or UofM, or CMU or anything like that. So, eat a dick everyone else. 
The facebook confessions page is a crock of shit; it's generalities pandering in faux-satire and over the top bull shit. 
All schools in Michigan have some sort of stereotype associated with them, and we're no different. However, it's nothing to lose sleep over. 

The following are stereotypes associated with different Michigan universities that I've **heard** over the years: 

* University of Michigan = Asian/Smart 
* Michigan State University = Hicks/Dumb 
* GVSU = Snobby/Wealthy/White 
* WMU = Bros/Gross/Not smart enough for GVSU/UM  
* CMU = Jersey Shore/Drama/Not smart enough for GVSU/UM 

I'm not saying that I agree with the aforementioned stereotypes, but from my experiences, I'm not saying I disagree with all of them... 

You're going to run in to dumb classmates at any university. 

I'd rather have our widely-known stereotype than some of the stereotypes associated with the other universities... 

And no, I've never been embarrassed about matriculating here - In fact, I'm proud of it 
Absolutely not, I love Grand Valley. I have always felt that it positively defined who I am now. The relationships that I had with professors and alumni of my program while in undergrad were incredible. Don't let your friends get you down, GV is a great place. 
Back when I was at GV (grad in 2010) I remember being in a small group in a Comm class and the other 4 people were bragging about how they had MIPs. I remember thinking, "WTF, why are you proud of irresponsibility?"
Nope. Got my degree here in 2010. Recently, one of my neighbor's snotty little girls considered GVSU to be a person's "backup" school- when back when I attended, Central or Eastern were considered "backups". You can say that about any school- and honestly, the skankiest women I've known have always seemed to attend MSU or Central. 
As a Chip, yeah I would be embarassed. Nothing but fags and fuck faces at GVSU. But I have met some really sweet and nice girls there. And for the skankiest of the skanks thats Western. Fuck the broncos. Fire up Chips.
It is a money thing. I got the same shit when I was at gvsu 15 years ago. But I think my education was better. Smaller classes, profs you can actually talk to. Smaller campus. It is a great school.
I heard about that and I am pumped if we do get him.  Thanks for helping on that 
Are you guys teaming-up with the GR CFI, or is the GVSU CFI bringing him in alone? 

Very impressed. 

EDIT: I also heard what his speaking fee is...and still think he's worth it 
Prepare to be lurked.
Sorry you couldn't get into a better university.
I always joke that we're all going to be equally unemployed anyways but I'll have less debt.
I didn't explain the money thing: students often equate more expensive with better. That isn't the case.
Yeah that's one of the problems as well. A lot of people write off GVSU as cheap. :/
As an alum, this excites me and I hope it is open to all of us.
We've cosponsored, but he will be coming to GVSU itself only. 
Hey Matt. Likewise. 
Also a Chip, can confirm that I will be transferring here soon. CMU blows so much dick
No joke. I paid mine off. My friends who went to bigger schools haven't.
Events/speakers/etc... that the school pays for are open to everyone 
I just went and approved a bunch of posts... my bad everyone.

In the future, if you're not seeing your posts on the first 2 pages... send us a message. Chances are, your post was removed for some reason because haven't properly "trained" our subreddit's spam queue properly. 

Sorry for the suckiness.
Let us know what you think! 

[Survey](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfPXi65JstLkvG6X-AVAzfZ29rSNe0g8eaDQhyHAlPLG-qfuw/viewform?usp=sf_link)
Open debate about what between whom where?
Whats the point of this?
Aside from half these questions having next to nothing to do with debate at all, you’ve given no explanation as to why this was posted.
You should have really worded this far better dude. Open debate isn't a good term because there's 3 seperate styles inside open debate. Open just refers to the league status anyways, doesn't it? Like there's the newbie level and then open/varsity? 

Are you talking about competitive policy debate? If so you need a backing of coaches and professors and is the only decent form of debate anyways
Open debate as a general concept where you have any topic.
Looking for a sub-leaser for Hillcrest Townhouses it is on 48th avenue!!
List of amenities:
Bus stop that takes you right to campus!
Free Water!
Rent is 450 a month!
Can pay with financial aid!
3 nice female roommates. 
Biggest bedroom with walk in closet!
Only utilities are gas and electric. 
Free wifi, and parking!
Must be a female. 
Move in December 
Email me at ortizch@mail.gvsu.edu
So I don't have to go to Devos...
There's a computer lab on the 2nd floor, if you go up the main stairs, turn left. Go down that hallway and you'll find it on the right side after a couple of turns. Not sure if there are others. 
I won a water bottle!
ScholarWorks has some great stuff
Anyone on Twitter/Tumblr/other sites and want to share?

Me:

* [@mikerapin](http://www.twitter.com/mikerapin)
* [tumblr.mikerapin.com](http://tumblr.mikerapin.com)
* [Last.fm](http://www.last.fm/user/mikerapin)
* [Google+](https://plus.google.com/116096284333985476811)
You already have all of my things!!!
Who the hell are you!?
This really is a fun game. *leaps away*
why are we not allowed to go home?
To not spread the virus to your home?
Well we are allowed to go home, it just costs about $5 or so now.
if we get tested before we go why would in matter
wait what?
Because you could get sick at home and bring it back
thats about the cost of a 'pigs in a blanket' bumper sticker id imagine, just slap that baby on and peacefully protest your way back home.
so then get tested before you go back too. not that difficult
Results can take 2-3 days and the incubation period can be more than a week. Really not hard to grasp
False negatives are a thing
You think people are actually gonna do that
So I'm wondering about about the fridge size of the Laker Village Single Room efficiency apartment and how big the fridge is in the apartment and if I could use a mini fridge there as well.
I never stayed in LV so take my answer with a grain of salt...I lived in South E one year and we had a full-size refrigerator, my rough guess would be that LV has the same but I'm not sure. You should be able to call Housing and ask them. As for a mini, I believe housing policy asks that you do not bring one if your unit already has a full size in the kitchen. That being said, I don't think they strongly enforce that, if you really need some additional cold space.
With 600 cases and a student/faculty/staff population of around 30,000, that puts the total case rate around 2%. The case rate for Kent County (about 9200 cases and 656,000 residents) is about 1.5%. I think this might be a bit dramatic.

That being said, the tuition argument is completely valid in my opinion. Increasing tuition while your entire student body is receiving a fraction of the services/amenities at a fraction of the quality that could be reasonably expected by a student at GV is absurd.
Those demands are a bit outrageous! GIVE US A FULL REFUND AND A PLACE TO LIVE AND HEALTHCARE AND FOOD. wtf? how are they going to give you a refund AND housing, food and healthcare?? what do you think, that money grows on tress?
I cringed at
> Well 'Philly'
Yeah this is pretty ridiculous. If you don’t like what’s going on then don’t take classes this semester?
Excellent!! So proud of our students!!! We support you!!!
Well it was a freshman 🤦🤦🤦
to be fair, classes have been in session just shy of a month, while Kent has been recording their cases since March.
Completely agree. This "petition" is DOA.
Seriously, whoever wrote this just wants a bunch of free handouts. Since when is a University responsible for healthcare to students? Finding shelter for students not on campus? 

Petitions can be great and all but this one is ludicrous. Horribly written and sounds more like someone whining rather than asking for change. ffs they called for the presidents job!
With a $133,000,000 endowment it can’t be that ridiculous.
Agreed, they think they can just drain the endowment fund and call it good. Yeah that is not how this works, probably a freshman who is pissed they cant have a fun welcome week.
Either way you look at it it's not enough justification to pull the plug. It's perfectly reasonable to try to slow community spread through other means before dropping the nuclear option imo.
As we all know, endowments are stored in the cave under zumbridge hall. It is the sole responsibility of each president to guard this horde with their life. Mantella sleeps each night on this mountain of cash, spooning with her m249.

It will be hard fought, but if we work together we can retake the cave and all share in the spoils.
Yes. I also think there’s a pretty heavy amount of the university population fine with being in person, they’re just a lot less vocal about it.
Hi guys. I know Lakers are amazing and supportive, so I'm hoping you can help. My cousin Mike, a former Laker, has been nominated for a national contest for the NMEDA's Local Heroes contest to win his first wheelchair accessible vehicle. Mike studied computer science at GVSU and has been super involved with the InterVarsity Christian Fellowship.

Mike is 25 years old and was born with cerebral palsy. He is capable of driving his own vehicle, but requires one with accessibility features. He has faced many obstacles, financial and otherwise, trying to gain his independence. He is a former Grand Valley student (Go Lakers!) and now has the opportunity to become a computer programmer for a local GR company, but having reliable transportation would be a huge first step in making this dream a reality.

You can vote and read more about his story at his entrant profile here:

http://www.mobilityawarenessmonth.com/entrant/mike-knooihuisen-walker-mi/

You can vote daily, twice if you answer the daily trivia question correctly. If you want to take an extra step, share this post to your friends and family. Thank you for your support, Lakers! It means a lot!
Thanks everyone!

Let’s figure out a time and place and try to spread the word on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter. Masks required, and probably on the downtown campus. GVSU should NOT be resuming in-person classes. This is absolutely abhorrent.
If anyone is a freshmen go into the fb group page for them and go and convince people to take gap years because they won't get their full college experience and the school doesn't care about your safety, well being, providing a good experience, etc. Only care about their pr and not you and us the students. If we get a ton of people to drop their tuition and classes and housing then we will see real blowback and change from the school
Probably not the best idea, because even if we wear masks and distance we will probably all die.
How about masks not required, but alcohol is. You do understand that this is all just an arrogant pr move for them. If we make the school look bad then we will get what we want, or at least they will lose money and get hurt from us rebelling.
Lmaooo let’s be friends
Lmaooo let’s be friends
Even if we save just 1 life by not protesting its worth it.
I feel you but the administration is looking for any reason to push blame on students. If there is a protest, it needs to be by the books. Masks, outdoors, and social distanced as much as possible.
Go suck a dick dude. Nobody is going to fucking die you dumbass. Besides I want my room and board money refunded with me being able to definitely be able to take classes at home and with me still having a place to come back too next semester if we have irl classes then
What happens if the blame is pushed on the students because odds are that is what's going to happen anyways? Other then a oh we're disappointed in our students email or some shit what can they do? Hell what is a protest that is social distanced even going to do anyways? Do you really think that is what intimidates or scares them? The reason people protest is to intimidate or scare people to then force them to change to the will of the crowd. I promise you a timid protest isn't going to do shit. Anything less then pure pr destruction even if it means students gets blamed is the only way we can actually force their hand.
Exactly, no one is going to die. Thats why its perfectly fine to have in person classes with masks+distancing.

edit: in fact your reply is so perfect, anyone who doesnt suspect you are my second account is an idiot lmao
Class inside

Safe from virus outside
fuck you bitch I just want to save money from not having to live in allendale, or being able to workout
Its just a bit strange you believe no one is going to die, and yet you believe we should be 100% online because of covid. 

Also we are still within the room and board refund deadline btw, you can still cancel at no cost.

Not really sure what your argument is, you kind of just seem like a typical room temp IQ troll.
I need a place to stay for winter semester in case of irl classes then. I don't care about covid whatsoever. I care about getting my classes done and graduating this year, as well as saving money due to being able to safely getting refunded my room and board
Thanks for forcing the university to waste my tuition dollars on a stupid lawsuit, assholes. 
The 0.03 percent of campus is a dumb argument.

.03% of campus is a lot when you consider the empty space of campus as well as the foot traffic by kirkhof and au sable.

I wonder if the percentage takes all the undeveloped land owned by GV into account.
LOL, without the slightest hint of irony the university said in a statement: "Grand Valley State University embraces the First Amendment and encourages, supports and defends free speech."
When it comes to the case law and constitutional law involving the issue, it is clearly illegal for public universities to restrict free speech *anywhere* outdoors on campus, as long as students are not blocking doorways or being so loud that they're disrupting classes.

That was the precedent clearly set by numerous cases at universities like UNC Greensboro, West Virginia University, Texas Tech, and the University of Cincinnati. [Read this article for more information.](https://www.thefire.org/federal-court-university-of-cincinnati-free-speech-zone-violates-first-amendment-cannot-stand-3/)

Moreover, the fact that the faculty, campus administrators, etc. didn't enforce the rules equally - they allowed left-wing groups to demonstrate on campus outside of the Orwellian "free speech" zones while shutting down peaceful conservative or libertarian activists - *highlights the core of the issue*.

When you have unfair and unconstitutional rules like this set by a government entity (in this case a public university), the political establishment (in this case the university administrators) can choose to ignore the rules when causes they support break them. This clearly creates an environment where some causes can be discriminated against while others are allowed to do whatever they like on campus. Clearly, that's exactly what's happening at GVSU now, since the anti-Trump, pro-abortion, and BLM protesters were allowed to flagrantly violate campus policy without repercussion.

Now I want you to ask yourself - if the tables were flipped, and the GVSU administration allowed conservative and libertarian activists to hold demonstrations *anywhere* on campus while limiting left-wing activists to a tiny portion of campus, would you still be defending this illegal, unfair, and unconstitutional rules?
I just want to clarify that I definitely have a left wing bias and disagree with the group's message but I don't believe that disqualifies this opinion as I tried my hardest to keep it unbiased and it mainly focuses on the law and campus rules.

> the fact that the faculty, campus administrators, etc. didn't enforce the rules equally - they allowed left-wing groups to demonstrate on campus outside of the Orwellian "free speech" zones while shutting down peaceful conservative or libertarian activists - highlights the core of the issue.

> When you have unfair and unconstitutional rules like this set by a government entity (in this case a public university), the political establishment (in this case the university administrators) can choose to ignore the rules when causes they support break them. This clearly creates an environment where some causes can be discriminated against while others are allowed to do whatever they like on campus. Clearly, that's exactly what's happening at GVSU now, since the anti-Trump, pro-abortion, and BLM protesters were allowed to flagrantly violate campus policy without repercussion.

I said a few things along these lines in my earlier post, the article didn't show any example of leftwing groups being favored it just mentioned a Donald Trump protest. I'm under the impression that the Turning Point group is not protesting but is instead trying to recruit/spread their message. Groups attempting to do this must remain in certain zones where as the left wing protest i've seen have been protests that (I'm assuming made plans with the university) are marching around campus.

I think the distinction the University is making is between a protest/march and an organization trying to recruit people. The article wasn't very clear and I was only responding to that source so if someone has links to more information that could prove that this isn't the case I would appreciate it. If the Turning Point group asked to march/protest on campus and were refused I would definitely see them winning a case, unless the university had a legitimate concern. 


**this is from the article linked to in the comment above**

> Prior to today’s court order, UC had required all “demonstrations, pickets, and rallies” to be held in a “Free Speech Area” that comprises just 0.1% of the university’s 137-acre West Campus. University policy further required that all expressive activity in the free speech zone be registered with the university a full ten working days in advance, threatening that “[a]nyone violating this policy may be charged with trespassing.”

UC's "Free Speech Area" applied to protesters, not people recruiting for their organization. This is different from GV's Free Speech Area as it prevents recruitment by greek life, clubs, sports teams, churches, political groups, etc. all over campus and confines it to specific areas that receive a high volume of student traffic. It is not confining protesters which would violate the law in my opinion. 

> ask yourself - if the tables were flipped, and the GVSU administration allowed conservative and libertarian activists to hold demonstrations anywhere on campus while limiting left-wing activists to a tiny portion of campus, would you still be defending this illegal, unfair, and unconstitutional rules

I don't believe the groups were being discriminated based on political ideology and I also don't believe that the rules are illegal, unfair and unconstitutional. If this article could show that the university cared about the political ideologies of the groups then I would be all for the lawsuit and be on the side of Turning Point. 
Also I want to make it 100% clear that, even though I'm on the left, that my political views aren't influencing my view on this lawsuit it's simply argued from the perspective of what the rules actually are and if those rules are unfair. 
Less than $200?
Don’t use crytal clean they don’t do a good job
Some friends of mine told me about this "protest" so, naturally I tagged along to check it out just for the heck of it. We got there about ten minutes before the crowd came, so we got front row in front of the camera.....Now I am in a video of this huge "story," that escalated quickly to national news. I don't know if I like that much attention.  I just hope they re-install the ball because of how fast this has escalated.
Sometimes I'm embarrassed to be a student here.
I think we should all meet and play games again. Any one up for a hangout night?
http://www.woodtv.com/dpp/sports/GVSU-to-Cuba-for-baseball-med-supplies
Let me know if you find anything broken with it, or have any suggestions.

Edit: Also, let me know if you like it, of course! I'm hoping more and more people will actually use it, as it could turn into a very powerful software that I could market to climbing gyms.
This is great as a new member of Vertical Earth I can't wait to use this!
This is a great idea that would be far better suited as a smartphone app. There are a ton of routes up and it would e difficult to remeber all of the data without writing it down if you climb for 4-5 hours as I used to. 

Also, it's pretty amazing how much has changed at the climbing center. I used to set routes for comps there along with a few friends  I don't recognize a single name on that list whereas 6 or 7 years ago I would have known everyone on it. 
Yeah, I'm working on a mobile version of it. Glad to hear some positive feedback!

The setting here currently is, well, unique. Very hit or miss. I'd like to think that I'm a decent setter, haha.
Mobile version is complete. It should automatically redirect you if you're using a smartphone.
Looks good!
So there are tons of bigger and cheaper universities in Michigan, so why would a student come to GVSU? Why did you? Serious question - I did several <university> is best known for what searches and GVSU doesn't seem to be known for, well, anything. So why should I come here?

edit: I'm actually quite interested in GVSU, the comments by DerzKing, Code_Moo, and GoldenJ make it sound like it's a great place to learn without feeling like a faceless number. Thanks for the great feedback!
Don't. Clearly you don't want to and if all you're concerned about is what list GVSU is ranked highest on, you're going to miss out on those small things that make GV special. 
I'm a prof. I have never seen a public university with these kind of resources this dedicated to teaching and to undergraduates. There are other great choices, I'm an MSU grad, but we're unique. The profs at most schools are about the research, and it can be unusual to find one dedicated to teaching. Profs here are scholars, but often working on UG accessible research, and everyone is committed to teaching. It's like Williams or Benoit with the resources of 20K+ students.
What helped me make my choice was that Grand Valley is mostly undergraduate only. So, as a chemistry major this meant I didn’t have to compete with graduate students for research projects and professors here have more of an emphasis on teaching rather than getting that next grant for their research. Other reasons are the fact that it’s a moderately small school where I can see someone if I want to, but it’s also big enough to where I can blend in with the crowd. It’s also beautiful! Compared to many other university campuses it’s very clean and well put together. 
Alumni of the biomedical sciences program here. 

Campus: Of all the university campuses I've been on in the state, GVSU's had by far the nicest campus with the most modern, updated buildings. I live in Ann Arbor and constantly hear my friends complain about the old, run-down dorms/ classrooms at UM. But being 15 mins from the beach and 15 mins from GR is very nice as well.

Curriculum: I basically had no gen eds to take and there are fewer required useless classes compared to other schools. There were lots of options for upper level courses not offered at other universities, like cadaver dissections, which is extremely rare for any university to offer this to undergrads. 

Class size: An underrated feature. My friends at places like UM or MSU complain constantly about their huge science lectures with 200-400 students. They also have to deal with GSIs and TAs doing a lot of the discussions/grading/office hours. Although GVSU is the 3rd largest school in the state, I often had science lectures of 20-40 people, the largest class being about 100. These were taught exclusively by qualified professors, along with the discussion section, and the professors were very available in office hours. I may have gotten lucky with profs though.
Tons bigger? Only Michigan State, Michigan, Wayne State, and possibly Central Michigan are bigger. 
West Michigan is an amazing area. I feel like I am getting a really good quality of education here. The facilities are modern and clean, and I feel like a lot of the professors truly give a damn about their students
Was waitlisted at Michigan tbh... 
If you want a job out of the Midwest, don't go here because in my experiences it has been really hard. Finally landed an IT position in Texas though so it is possible. U of M and MSU open a shit ton more doors in that regard.
I'm a transfer student, so I don't have the same experience as others do. I can tell you though, GVSU advisors are so much better than the ones at the community college I went to. People here are abit aloof, but nice, something that GR tends to do, in my experience. The classes are good, I don't think I've had one with more than 40 students yet. The professors seem more invested in the students than at other schools my friends go to.


The best institution for you is the one that best fits YOUR needs and aspirations.  Choosing schools based on these standards your given is extremely foolish.  A community college could be the best thing for someone, while Harvard could be the absolute worst thing for them.
Jesus. Why don't you list the "small things that make GV special." This subreddit is full of douchebags. I wouldn't have attended GV if I read shit this. 
The only truth in this thread lol. Same bro.
What most don't realize is GVSU is a teaching institution rather than a research institution.  Research is done here, but that is not the main focus for faculty.  Meaning, if you want to be a faculty member at GVSU, you are coming here to TEACH.  Being an aloof professor who does the walking zombie in pajamas routing through their teaching role are not going to last long here (unless you have tenure).
We don't work for admissions. Look at OP's post...they don't want to attend or aren't convinced they want to attend. GV wasn't my first undergrad school and I didn't want to attend at first either but I spoke with the right person in admissions who helped convince me that GV was the best fit for me and I have loved the school since. If truth makes me sound douchey, so be it. Why don't you list the things that made GV special for you?
Pretty minimal list to be completely honest. 
NULL
If you think for a second you wouldn't get it with your stats, then you're not as smart as your GPA suggests.
Bro, your guaranteed to get accepted 
Pretty slim. I hear that you have to have a 4.2 and a medal of honor and at least be nominated for a nobel prize to have a shot.
I got auto accepted with a 3.6 and a 30 ACT, and then applied and was accepted to the Honors College so you are a lock for both, to be honest.
Dude get your ass to Michigan
Pretty much guaranteed to both the University and the honors college if you're interested in it.
If you are going to apply, you should also apply for the honors college as well. Totally worth it and the dorms are amazing. 
As everybody else has stated you are all but guaranteed to be accepted. And as much as I loved my 5 years at GV I would definitely still recommend that you apply to many universities in order to have as many options as possible.
Yeah you're pretty much guaranteed in. I had around your stats and quickly did their application in late December and barely put any effort into it and got accepted a couple days later and got honors college/scholarship offers. 
Yeah may as well move into a dorm now.
You'll get in and should be able to score scholarships especially if you apply for the honors college
Where else are you applying?
Republicans can also vote in the Republican primary ....
Registered as a MI resident and voter on February 9th... Fuck.
That sucks and I'm sorry to hear. Do you know if your friends and family are registered in the state?
Moved from Illinois, but they all know when they're date is
Pry not
Why is our tuition increasing when the university is clearly generating more than enough money already? I mean, the answer is clear but it’s frustrating that everyone just shrugs it off and accepts that as the way things are especially since this is a public university. American universities don’t have nearly enough checks to keep costs reasonable and its really disheartening that it doesn’t seem like things will change anytime soon.
Absolutely not. Also, she sucks.
I believe you're mistaken. Her salary is 480k according to [published salary information](https://www.gvsu.edu/cms4/asset/8D86E681-E631-FDD9-C965A207536EA137/section_245_-_website.pdf) (page 16). According to the [release today](https://www.gvsu.edu/gvnext/2020/gvsu-boosts-financial-aid-by-13-plans-for-11591.htm), she has pledged 10% (48k) for student aid and the deans have pledged 5%.
No. Her salary is $480k, that’s not 10%.
Why does she suck?
Do you know if that is themselves personally pledging a percentage of their salary? I personally believe that nobody is under any obligation to give away their money. but youd think that someone who is the president of a very liberal university & makes a disgusting amount of money would publicly do so to help students during something like this😂
Oh I read it wrong, that’s still crazy high
I only know what was in that release. It makes it sound that they’re all personally donating. Administrators taking paycuts the year seems to be the trendy thing at many schools. 

We could argue how much money the president and deans should be donating (and there are plenty of overpaid deans). But even if they all donated 100% of their salary, the overall impact is small. I’d much rather push for transparency in their reopening plan and judge the administration on its feasibility.
UMich’s is almost twice that.
You don’t like her because she wears makeup? Dumbass
It's going to be hard to live up to someone like T. Haas who left on such a good note, give her some time.

Nobody takes one look at you either and goes "oh this person must be dumb as rocks", you try to get to know them and give it some time.
Not saying the amounts are justifiable but it probably is justifiable that the President of UMich makes 2x that of GV. Running a major research university is a lot different than running a regional state school IMO
T. Haas also never had to deal with a pandemic. The university is working really hard not to cut any jobs right now too. So...it’s really hard to compare the two.
What was the obsession with T. Haas? I graduated and never got it
More of an appreciation I think because he made himself so easy to approach and personable. Whenever he was on campus you could wave at him, "get a selfie" if he had time and he wouldn't mind if he had time. He also did fun things like go to football games with his wife, they would almost always say hi to the marching band, etc.. Just an all around pretty good guy.
This is not the time to get 40+ emails from profs about what software to download and changes to the syllabus. Let people figure out what they are going to do for their work situations or who will watch their kids. The desire to maintain normalcy in the schedule in the face of something like this is insane.
I think that at least professors need to stop expecting to conduct "live online" classes. Just post video lectures and have assignments turned in through BlackBoard. Stop with all the extra nonsense.
I think they’re struggling as much as the students with everything..
I still haven't gotten any communication from one of my profs. Not even an acknowledgement that this is happening, much less what the class is doing
This is a difficult transition for everyone. Please allow your professors to work through this as best as they are able. The situation is not perfect. I know this isn't perfect but this is uncharted territory we are entering.
It's definitely not fair to the profs either. This is unprecedented and needs more preparation than 4 days
Absolutely no one is happy with this— not the teachers, not the students, not the administrators
To be honest if not now, when? Who knows how long we will be out so the sooner we get started the better.
Also, I really need something to do!
Professor here. That’s what I’m doing. The university is really pushing Blackboard Collaborate, but some students don’t even have Wifi at home and I’m not going to penalize them for it. I refuse to pretend that this is not a catastrophic change.  

As I see it, my job is 1) to give my students whatever sense of stability and normalcy I can, 2) to share whatever knowledge and feedback on the subject matter that I possibly can, and 3) hand out A’s like candy on Halloween. 

Let’s all just survive this and be ready to move forward in the fall.
Yep. I have one that went totally dark and two others that have sent me emails every hour about something changing or something I need to set up on my computer.
Bless your soul. I’m grateful we have some level headed professors around here.
Aight, you seem like a pretty cool guy, please tell me what classes you teach so I can be in the presence of that mustache
I actually said this to my friend when I saw this at the connection a few days ago.
Doge?
No. Wow.
Such cup.
Much dissapoint.
Spoiler Alert!
These cups suck for putting liquor in. It seems to leak through so easy.
Not much money, actually.
http://imgur.com/l4xVoFG
I agree with tinydustball. I had a 3.63 before Fall 2020 semester. My semester of Fall 2020 was a 3.4, and I had a few professors were I had to teach myself the material. Why should I pay &13,000 out of my own money, not my parents, to teach myself. If that is the case, I could find a good educational page on the internet such as Khan Academy to learn business, math, accounting, economics, and pretty much any other degree that isn’t specialized like healthcare. Heck you can even learn engineering w/o going to college.
The percentage of students that are shitty is likely equal to the percentage of profs that are shitty. Big surprise. It's all luck, and I think the majority of us are aware that a college education (for about half of students pursuing a degree) is a scam; we're essentially paying big bucks out of pocket for a piece of paper that means nothing compared to work experience.
Wow, what a gross post. The condescension is reeking through this screen.
Dear people who think they’re smarter and better than other people: Fuck off 😊
Unless you're exceptional and can interview/network well, or someone gives you an opportunity, you really do want a degree to get your foot in the door for a STEM job. A lot of employers just ignore non degree holding applicants

But a lot of people do use the "zuckerburg" approach, in which you only go to class when absolutely essential and/or you calculate how much work you can skip on without losing credit in the class. These people have determined their time is better spent learning elsewhere but obviously still want the paper (at least until they hit it big lol).

I'm a cs alumnus and my time at gv was ultimately a waste aside from the paper which just tells my first employer that I'm not a complete goon.
GV needs to reconsider their P/F credit/no credit policy.  Many state universities offer the option to chose P/F AFTER final grades have been posted.  Not the second week into the semester.  Obviously many students GPA have dropped due to various levels of class instruction/organization and having to teach themselves the material.  

One university acknowledge this issue by stating “We understand that this semester has been enormously difficult, in your classes and in your personal lives. For many of you, the cumulative toll and anxiety has been amplified by concern about grades and GPA”. These universities have extend the P/F option for both Fall 20/Winter 21 semesters and allowing this decision to be made AFTER grades are posted. 

Maybe GV just wants more money from students who have to repeat classes to boost their GPA or extend their college education?
Took the words out of my mouth. This is disgusting. Whoever wrote this has serious issues that they should probably get checked out!
just wanna thank you both for giving me hope that my degree will serve its intended purpose, and for helping dispel the idea you dont need a degree for a decent job that won't kill your body.
I'm asking this for a writing project I'm doing, and I would like some people's opinions. This is the easiest way for me to " interview" people at the moment, so names would be helpful for quoting.
I don't really care but man week 9 hit and it's hard paying attention now
Tell em that SlingDong69 does not like online classes!
I’ve enjoyed that the shift to online learning has made it easier for me to be in school whilst working and partaking in other aspects of life, but I miss having face time with teachers, as well as the general environment of being in the classroom with peers.
I can confidently say i've only learned practical applicable material in 2 of my classes this semester, when i should be getting it from all of thw classes i am currently in. Lectures online are great for the most part. Labs online are a flippin joke
Thank you for the responsr
Thank you so much for your response
I took only online in the summer and it was fine but they were short semesters

This semester is getting tough starting this week for me if this is good info to know
It really does help
Still not the latest version :( 
It's a start. I'm content with 36.
Yet Java is still, what, like 15+ iterations behind? People have been coming up to us (IT) about Web software for their Orgo assignments not working becuase of this. Yet still no updates.
For real. Its 5 AM right now so I've given up hope for my 8 AM being canceled, but as a commuter (from Holland) this is the worst I've seen it outside
I have a strong feeling about tomorrow being a snow day / cold day because it'll hit -20/-30 windchill tonight
Classic GVSU. Class canceled 2pm+
Just a friendly reminder: no class is worth your life. Don't risk it if you don't feel it is safe on the roads. Email the prof and let them know, hell all the schools are closed in Holland. 

As an employer, I don't require my employees to show up when the city I live in has a snow day, it becomes optional.
I apologize for the repost, I accidentally posted with live discussion.
Any parties going on this Saturday?
Hi GVPD
None that ik of officer
I'm not a cop lol, I'm moving to Copper beech Saturday and some friends are coming down with me and we're looking for something to do. You can add my snapchat in you don't believe me 😂😂 @Dykhuis21
I suggest you follow some of the gvsu Twitter accounts. There is more activity there and you can find where the parties are easier 
Hey guys, 

I'm looking to sell my two tickets to the LaughFest Bo Burnham performance. I can no longer make it. Tickets are for two seats on the upper balcony, about 4 rows back in the balcony. 

Asking price is $100.

Message or comment.
This isn't Craigslist 
I'm interested, how much were they originally?
Obvi Kid is obvi^
Yeah man, my single post is really cluttering up this very active subreddit. Chill out, it's a public forum. 
Already sold. Sorry dude. Are you cosmo from Milford? 
Nope, just a Seinfeld enthusiast. 
It was only a matter of time before big money started moving west. These people cant possibly be surprised.
Hi there!

Our good moderator [jkahrs595](http://www.reddit.com/r/jkahrs595) got to talking and one thing lead to another and now we have Advice Generators. 

"*What are Advice Generators?*" you may ask. Well, good GVSU redditor, they look like this:

[*Smokes cigarette within 25 feet of building***"I'm a rebel"**](/#freshman)

So! Basically, this is the beginning of us being able to be clever/funny with this subreddit.

Other possible future images/advice generators that I'm making up off of the top of my head:

* Louie the Laker
* T. Haas
* Scumbag department

If you have any suggestions and can provide images, send them my way.

Also: **This thread will be the go-to on how to create advice generators**

Current Generators:

[*College Freshman***College Freshman**](/#freshman)

    [*Top Text***Bottom Text***](/#freshman)

[*Senior Student***Senior Student**](/#senior)

    [*Top Text***Bottom Text***](/#senior)

[*Sheltered Freshman***Sheltered Freshman**](/#sheltered)

    [*Top Text***Bottom Text***](/#sheltered)

[*Lazy College Senior***Lazy College Senior**](/#lazysenior)

    [*Top Text***Bottom Text***](/#lazysenior)

[*Louie The Laker***Louie The Laker**](/#louie)

    [*Top Text***Bottom Text***](/#louie)
There shouldn't be a * in front of the first line
God I'm tired of that meme format.
Any particular reason why?
Okay, so I get that most of GV's expansion is a result of rich West sideofthestate private funding, but every time a new building is being put up in the name of GV it pumps me up. Maybe one day GVSU will be a name known widely around the country. It already has higher quality programs than a lot of schools, but unfortunately there's just no recognition behind the name.
I am so happy to be graduating out of this construction zone of a school. There has been no letting up in my time here, it's simply a ridiculous amount of 'progress' occurring.

To speak to /u/Fighter_spirit's point, it is my opinion that this recognition can only come after the halt to expansion of facilities. We, as a university, are showing no recognition of standards. What I am getting at here is that as the demand for universities increase there needs to be certain checks on university expansion. There can be no recognition developing when we admit more and more kids every year proving a lack, or compromising of standards.
The primary function of a public university is to serve its community 
Definitely can't argue with a general statement like that. My concerns lie in the methods of which we are currently serving this community. I am not well versed enough to call myself an expert in the dynamics which are at play here. What I do know is that current trends, and norms of this university's culture are not cohesive.
im a 21 F I'm going into my senior year at gvsu i live in meadows in allendale and as pathetic as it sounds i have no friends ive had friends come and go some transferred a lot got into relationships others moved down town and we got detached I'm not weird i party i smoke I'm really chill but i find it so hard to make friends at gv and it makes me hate it there everyone seems to have their set group of friends so its hard to fit in anywhere i haven't even been able to go out down town in gr since I've turned 21 bc i have no one to go with so if anyone is willing to hang out let me know
Gv is a hard place to meet people if you didn't get an in freshman year. 
I'll share the post with a couple friends of mine. I've graduated. 
I'm a junior transfer this year and don't know that many people. Let's be friends maybe?
I know a bit on how you feel (though a 26 m). I live off campus though on the east side of GR, but I am willing to meet new people. 
Hey I'm going there on the 24th hit me up on here for my number or email. I need friends as a transfer student lol
I'm not a student but I do live in the area (23/m). There are tons of things to do in the area, including a lot of non-gvsu groups. Do you have any hobbies or interests?

Otherwise feel free to shoot me a message if your specifically looking for people to hang out with.
Have you joined any clubs? Or even made your own? You can go to shows downtown at the Pyramid Scheme or Founders or something. That will get you out of the "daddy paid for my tuition" culture. 

I think it's just a matter of throwing yourself out there. If you see someone that looks interesting, introduce yourself. The worst that could happen is they won't be your friend, which the eact position you're in now. 
Awkwardly returning to the week old thread- sounds like we have quite a few Redditors.  You guys wanna meet Welcome Week at Mully's or something?
Talk to people.
I'm a senior living in 48 west. We will probably have a party or two welcome week that you could come to. Inbox me
I'd like to think that, considering you're a redditor, you'd fit right in with any of my friends (20 M).  And welcome week is gonna be a helluva time.  Inbox me
I mean we're all sophomores so probably a little young for you but we live in meadows too.
What is your major? I am a 24 Female senior in the Illustration program and I am always down to make new friends. I transferred to GVSU a few years a go, so I totally understand your situation. 
Im a senior and I just moved down town. Might even have some people over tonight if you wanted to stop by
this is how i feel exactly and i have a horrible story i went in blind and ended up with a girl from the sag nasty that was very under privileged and ended up not being able to afford school and leaving first semester and then i moved i with someone who didn't allow others in the room all the while being misplaced in the honor dorms i made no friends it was awful i just want to have friends for my senior year 
yes lets!
that you for the words of encouragement I'm deff going to try my hardest this year to put myself out there and i hope everything works out for the best i just turned 21 so I'm excited to hit the down town area but i wouldn't want to go out alone clubs is a good point i think i should really try
I think this is the best way to do it. Just introduce yourself. It is hard for some people to get over that social anxiety, but I feel like there is plenty of opportunities on and off campus to meet people. 

I am a transfer student coming in this year so I am in the same boat. Feel free to message me and we can exchange snaps or emails or something. 
omg this should happen!
why not?!
im majoring in exercise science. and thats really cool i have a lot of friends that go to school for graphic design and stuff we deff need to meet up id love to see ur art!
im not up there yet! I'm taking a class at oakland and it doesn't nd till the 25th so ill b up after that
Probably just related to living on campus. Most people meet their immediate "friend group" via the dorm building that they go into their first year.


Just easier to be "friends" with people that you're forced to be around, especially with how a lot of people have their doors open all day, compared to if you live in an apartment you're kind of limited in the amount of people you see everyday
Trade instagram or snapchat?

Same situation as this guy, welcome week we should chill. The more friends the better
I'm a junior who commutes from home but doesn't have many friends at school, can I get in here, too?
I'd still be down!  Anybody free?
Oh nice! Any particular career goals? 
And for sure! Do you have a facebook?
I would add that it depends on how much you put yourself out there. If you join any kind of campus club/organization that helps because it gets your foot in the door. A lot of the GV population, at least from my experience, finds their friend group and doesn't venture far from it.

I need a reason to go into Zumberge just so I can check out all the new stuff. 
Just go over and walk through some time. The transformation on the inside is incredible, especially if you remember what the old library was like. 
Holy fuck. A simple google search just revealed that Philomena gets paid $480,000 a year and is overseeing the dismantling of the school into a quasi-online for-profit model ala Bain Capital style restructuring. A reasonable salary for an executive would be $150,000. We could pay 3 Emeritus level Professors with the excess. What other executives are getting paid this excessively while we are seeing MOTHERFUCKING TUITION HIKES?! Meanwhile, they are forcing professors to take on increased course loads for what essentially amounts to executive profiteering?!!?   


We need to organize.  


The Professors need a union.

&#x200B;

The students need a union.   


DM me your info if you are down with the movement and want to organize!
Just for context, the annual budget is $350M or so.

For some more context, the university is facing a $35M budget deficit as a result of Covid and decreased tuition.
Does this seem out of the ordinary compared to other presidents across the state?

UofM's president makes over $850,000, MSU's president has a base salary $800,000 but can top out at a million with incentives. Many of the private college presidents are probably making a lot more than $480,000 too. Its comparable with what WMU and CMU are paying which seems about right to me.

At $150,000 you probably arent going to be able to attract the kind of person you need to run a school of this size.
Faculty does have a union; its called the University Academic Senate and the Executive Committee of the Senate.

Students do have a union; its called Student Senate.

If anybody want to voice your concerns about tuition, student affairs, or really anything student related PLEASE contact Student Senate [here](https://www.gvsu.edu/studentsenate/cms-contact-index.htm)
The issue is with our many admins there are. I had a Management professor at GV 6ish years ago, very smart guy! He said when he started (80s) that there was a professor to admin ratio of 1:2 or 1:3. He said it's since doubled, and that the admins are getting paid way more. There's the issue.
Yeah fuck this shit paying more for this ambiguous online bullshit fuck them I want more transparency when I’m paying an arm and a leg for an education
I completely disagree. Yes, it’s high, but high salaries show how valuable people are. If Philomena’s salary were lower, then the university would risk losing her to another university with more lucrative pay.
No more unions please
Just because they get away with it doesn't make it right. We can only change our school and can not worry about the compensation packages offered at other schools.

Are you a student? Are you okay with financing this egregious salary?
A Senate is beholden to the whims and interests of the Administration which has proven itself compromised by careerists.
Does the University Academic Senate engage in contract and salary negotiations on behalf of the Professors?
you know you can email the president at president@gvsu.edu and say you want more transparency. I don't think they are getting actual student feedback about this process.
https://mibiz.com/sections/economic-development/gvsu-names-philomena-mantella-as-next-president#:~:text=GVSU%20trustees%20unanimously%20approved%20a,first%2Dyear%20salary%20of%20%24480%2C000.
Just graduated here. 

~500k is not an egregious salary IMO. The president is responsible for the reputation and smooth operations of the entire university. 

You can make $150k a year as a truck driver if you really wanted to. It might sound like a lot to you as an undergrad, but it’s nowhere near high enough to attract the level of talent you need to handle the great responsibilities that come with the job.
Then what’s your plan when admin says “No”? 

These two organizations are created for this exact reason. If there are concerns from either of their respective groups, the senators will work on their behalf.
No, just like Student Senate doesn’t negotiate grades with professors.

It’s the role of the Senates to discuss university policies and to decide what would benefit their constituencies the best.
Nice. You do know you go to one of the most fiscally responsible universities in the country, right?
The president’s salary hasn’t been adjusted for inflation — EVER! 

Ex-President’s are guaranteed to make bank if they want by writing books, giving speeches, and consulting. The salary is totally inconsequential, don’t act like it has any relevance at all.
Actually yeah, potus is a job that isn't meant to pay well. Like at all. That job isn't about the money.
bro what
I'm unfamiliar with this statue. Who is it of? Who made it? when was it constructed?
GVSU FRIENDS!!! 

Hey everyone, as many of you know there is an infuriating confederate monument in Allendale, the home of GVSU's main campus. When a community group organized a protest against it, local politicians called in well-armed white supremacists to defend it. A few of us were at that protest and it was scary - some of the same people involved in storming the state legislature in April were present. GVSU's president weighed in on the issue, but the language was not very forceful, and the Allendale Township Board remains committed to keeping this statue up. The GVSU History Dept recently approved a much stronger statement calling for the removal of the statue, and in the hopes of putting pressure on both GVSU and Allendale, we would love to share it more widely. If you are connected to GVSU as a student, staff, or faculty member, you can help us do this! Go to the link below and you can sign the statement in support of the department. GVSU as an institution is committed to equity and inclusion, and it should take a clear stand on Allendale's confederate monument.
I found this article: https://www.mlive.com/news/grand-rapids/2020/06/confederate-soldier-statue-likely-to-stay-in-west-michigan-veterans-display.html

I think it's interesting that this petition says nothing about a Union soldier also being depicted, and that this statue is part of Veterans 
Garden. I think it's important for us to remember why we fought the Civil war -- let's not forget that the good guys won! I think this petition is a giant waste of time. This statue is in no way glorifying  white supremacy -- it's recognizing that we fought a war to advance human rights. How about you organize to make our community a better place instead of being professionally offended by anything that's triggering.
Where is this statue located? I’ve never seen it before.
I’ll sign just based on historical inaccuracies.
Actually extremely disappointing to hear the history department is falling for this stuff.
so you’re telling me that local politicians informally or formally asked racist people with guns to come to a college campus and stand around a statue that people were protesting for it to be taken down...?
It's in the Veterans Garden and also depicts a Union Soldier. This petition feels like virtue signaling to me. "These monuments were put in place by groups like the United Daughters of the Confederacy to inscribe in public spaces their conviction that white supremacy..." NO! This is a statue of American soldiers in THE VETERANS GARDEN where it belongs. There's no message here of white supremacy. Only a history lesson that life is really hard and that the North cared enough about our African brothers and sisters to go to war to fight for their rights. Tearing it down would be a signal that we shouldn't remember this fight for justice and human rights.
Thank you
So you believe you are more knowledgeable about American history and it’s context than the History Department? Nice.
No OP is outraged because that's the cool thing to do these days. Imagine if we used this energy to actually bring people together to affect real durable positive change, like community gardens, public health initiatives or Women's center fund raisers. This is such monumental BS that i want to build a giant Turd statue to honor all the Social Justice Warriors who want to see symbolic change that doesn't do anything to benefit those who are actually disenfranchised
That Confederate statue is in Allendale at the township Park off of 68th Ave.
Slavery was one of the triggers of the Civil War?
I read a few articles about this and it’s definitely not virtue signaling. Let’s evaluate the statue. Before we do that, we need to address the quote you pulled from the petition. That quote was put there to give context to the initial proliferation of confederate statues in this country and why there were erected. This petition is in no, shape, or form claiming the United Daughters of the Confederacy put these statues here, just that they were the first group to erect them en masse. The United Daughters of the Confederacy has been widely accused of promoting white supremacy and white-washing history for a long time. If someone disagrees with that, prove otherwise. 

For the statue, it depicts a Confederate soldier and a Union soldier standing with their back against each other (in a protective position)over a slave boy holding a sign that reads “Freedom to Slaves” dated January 5, 1863. Firstly, why are they depicting two COMBATANT soldiers defending the same thing? The Union and Confederacy fought largely over the continuance of slavery, with one group (the Confederacy) leaving the country/attacking the other group in effort to continue the practice of chattel slavery. 

Secondly, the date on the paper the slave is holding is at best, historical inaccurate and at worse, white-washing. Lincoln signed the Emancipation Proclamation on 01/01/1863 and the last slaves weren’t freed until 06/19/1865. So why the date chosen? On 01/05/1863, Jefferson Davis (Confederate President) said : 
“May God prosper our cause and may we live to give to our children untarnished the rich inheritance which our fathers gave to us.” 
“Our cause” was fighting to persevere slavery. Yet, the statue has him protecting a slave. 

This statue is not accurate depiction of the Civil War at all. This statue paints the picture they were both fighting to free the slaves when in reality, one side started a war to keep slavery and the other fought back to reunite as a country. I haven’t heard about this statue at all until I saw this post, but holy shit its intellectual dishonest. They should haven taken this down based on that. Funny how the argument was to ‘remember our history’. I would agree to keep it up it actually portrayed reality, but this statue serves as propaganda to Confederates.
No way in hell this is virtue signaling. They appear incredibly passionate about this and it's come up multiple times in the 6 years I've been around gvsu. Plus what would the point of them just virtue signaling be? They definitly want it done and it's not like it's backed by some buissness, which is the easiest way to spot virtue signaling

Whether it makes sense or not idk I never felt the need to look into it more
I think it's outright stupid to encourage the erasure of history.
i will second building a giant turd statue.
Maybe you should rewrite the petition. If there's nuance and incorrect political context, it's certainly not outlined in what's written.
The only historical aspect of this statue is that it is a statue lol

Edit for grammer
It’s not mine. I saw it here like everyone else. But come on, you know making a statue that depicts a confederate soldier defending a slave to allow him to be free is straight bullshit.
Grammar aside, by your logic you can say that about all forms of art.
We’re talking about statues accurately representing historical events. This statue does not accurately represent historical events. Dont move goalposts.
How so?
Basically the title. I see snapchat stories all the time of packed rooms filled with maskless people and people vacationing without quarantining when they return. Then they insist on getting in my personal space in line at the dining halls and bus stops and I am honestly really scared. Nobody is taking this seriously and I don’t want to have to face the consequences. I already take every precaution I can, I am not going home for the holidays or going on vacation, I wear masks in social situations and in public spaces. I am just tired of everyone else bringing the new variants into this campus when we are so close to being vaccinated.
Just sign up to get vaccinated is about all you can do.
you can report them to the university. there’s a webpage somewhere where you can report student conduct violations, and violating covid guidelines is “student endangerment”. i’m sure the punishments vary, but at least something will be done :/
If I were you and I saw a party on a snapchat story, I would try to find their location via snap map (if they have their location on) and snitch snitch snitch. These adult children have it coming to them
I would go ahead and file a report with the Office of Student Conduct and Conflict Resolution (OSCCR). They can take action. Only problem is you have to know names of those violating the protocol. 

https://www.gvsu.edu/osccr/file-a-report-22.htm
Wow lol
Youre right. I don’t understand the selfishness of these people.
Agreed. I’d be the biggest snitch on the goddamn planet.
https://imgur.com/a/wQXtpc2
This is just one of several parties ive seen on snapchat. They are all crowded in what looks like one of the dorm rooms/bedrooms.
ikr this sub is a joke
Cry about it
I'm right there with you. It's so obnoxious seeing all these people being so irresponsible.  But yeah unfortunately given the school's response to the uptick in cases being "hey maybe think about not doing whatever you're doing" I doubt they'll actually do too much about it. Hope you stay safe out there and get poked when you can
People like u and op are the ones “crying about it”. It’s honestly ridiculous that people are still thinking like this with a vaccine and the knowledge we have abt the virus..

How would it be effective to report somebody for essentially doing the same things that take place in bars and restaurants in GR?
We are still in the early stages of getting a vaccine rolled out. Cases are rising quite a bit. Variants are spreading. This is absolutely not what’s going on in most bars and restaurants, and if it is, they’re typically reported for it. Don’t use the vaccine existing as an excuse for this. There’s a lot more that needs to happen, even if you yourself have it.
I never understood the infatuation with the president of the university. He's just an old man.
The president we had before T.Hass sucked. When T.Hass became president he used to sub classes, and sometimes serve food at Fresh and was just an all around cool guy. I have worked at and gone to several universities since and none of them have been as friendly or well liked as T.Hass 
He also has way less influence in university and academic affairs than people think he does - He's really just a figurehead. 

I've never been a huge supporter of him and I think he's really holding the university back in some ways (pandering to big donors, allowing our athletic programs to crumble under the purview of a nepotistic athletic director, allowing too much corporate influence on campus, etc)   

That personal phone call to The Lanthorn exec editor a year or two ago was the last straw IMO 
Well yea its cool to appreciate a nice guy, but people flip shit when they see him. I don't get that.
How many university presidents do you know?
because that is the closest the majority of campus will ever get to someone even sort of remotely famous/popular. I mean, everyone needs something to get excited for.
You guys act like there wasn’t an option to take online classes, you made the choice to come to campus and if you didn’t weigh the risks of that it’s 100% on you. It was obvious from the start there was gonna be some covid on and around campus and our cases were about what most who did think about it were expecting. Me and my flatmates can’t learn online and that’s why we’re here, don’t try to take that from us just because you can’t think things through.
Hi, I'm a senior, I have a very specific set of classes I have to take this year. One of them had no online option. Go ahead and assume that we all had a choice if that's what makes you feel better though. It's valid that you don't want all online classes for the reason you stated but how about you don't come in here and make accusations about people whose circumstances you know nothing about.
Lol you act like the students are the ones deciding if we go full online
Whether some courses did or did not offer an online option every single person still made the CHOICE to take classes this semester. For those that will be quick to respond with "but my major...", "but as a <fill in the blank> student..", etc you still made the choice.

Is there a potential for setbacks if someone makes the choice to not take classes this semester? Absolutely. 

The hard reality is that every single person (whether they want to admit it or not) weighed the decision to take in-person classes against the risk of contracting covid.
Oh no ARealOpossum, didn't you hear, that kind of logical thinking isn't allowed around here.

Fortunately though, this sub is just a giant circle jerk and a minority opinion, so I wouldn't worry about losing your in person classes.
I dont think you understand the reality of what happens if students dont decide to take classes for a semester. If students, like me, have loans of any kind you have to start making payments back into them if you arent in school for a set amount of time. For a lot of students going into repayment isnt financially optionally for them right now so they have no choice but to continue schooling.
I’m a freshman this year and the GVSU subreddit seemed really cool until I realized half of it is just people shitting on GVSU for how they’ve handled COVID.
Is that what the financial aid office explained when you talked with them about the concern of student loan repayment if you choose to not take classes this semester?

I would find it odd they wouldn't inform you of the six month grace period from when you are no longer enrolled for six credits or more, or about deferment and forbearance options that are available due to financial hardship.

At a minimum they should have at least informed you about the extension of the Student Loan Payment Relief until Dec 31, 2020 which ceases all student loan payments and waives all interest on student loans.

Are you sure you spoke with an actual financial aid counselor and not a student worker?
Hmmm maybe we should have kept the fucking megathread? Ive been saying for weeks this sub has become nothing but shitting on gvsu for covid and we should be keeping it in one thread.
As an atheist, this is good news. Everyone should have religious freedom and their place they had to pray before is not as silent and up to date as the Christian one.
I fail to see why this is a step in the wrong direction.
I hope this construction seriously doesn't mean "construction". Why can't other religions use Cook-DeWitt? I'm pretty sure that there only needs to be one religious building on the campus of a public university, no matter which religion it's for.
Cook DeWitt isn't owned by GVSU though. The owners just "allow" it to be used; which is also why people can rent it for weddings and stuff like that.I think the entire thing is stupid though. Religion is often a notion tossed around when someone wants votes, and its pretty obvious in this case. Not to be a dick but I dont think the university should be paying for anything like this. If there's a large backing for it, someone needs to put their money where their mouth is and fund it themselves (like the trust founders who paid for cook DeWitt) and not expect the student body to do it for them
Throughout history, religion has always been anti-science, anti-progress, anti-human rights, etc... 

It really pains we to see a university (which stands for science, human rights, progress, etc) devote more space for this type of stuff. 
OP is an Atheist, and creating a safe space for religious people somehow infringes on his rights.
It disregards the separation of church and state. 
It may be that the physical facilities just simply can't accommodate two different religions like Catholicism (think: lots of space needed for sacristy, vestments, etc.) and Islam -- not out of tolerance but just out of physical space. 
It's hard to say from the article what sort of construction there will be. It sounds like they will just be finding a place within a current facility. Regardless, all religions should have a place to do whatever not just Christians otherwise it perpetuates our already enclosed community.
Probably just a remodel of an existing space to make it quiet. Probably we are not talking about a new building like a prayer chapel. 
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Catholic_Church_and_science
Oh I thought it was operated by GVSU. I was thinking they were just promoting one religion over another, but that's obviously not the case. I see what you're saying now. I agree 100%.
I don't know why everyone is down voting you so much...
Either that or he/she thinks it disregards the separation of church and state, which it does. 
No it doesn't. It provides a safe and appropriate environment for the practicing of faith if one chooses to do so. By no means does supporting diversity and providing students with a place to exercise their freedom of religion disregard separation of church and state.
I think it's more of the fact that Cook-DeWitt is clearly designed for Judeo-Christian religions more than anything else. 

Other religions see this, and know that if they make enough noise about the issue, they'll get a space that's more closely designed for them. 

They know that the university won't push back on it because the institution wants to be seen as a diverse, inclusive community. 

The university is sort of backed in to a corner on this.
I don't disagree with that first statement necessarily because I believe in separation of church and state. But that second statement is not factually correct. See: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Catholic_Church_and_science
I agree! However, there's not going to /be/ zero religious buildings on campus, so we should at least only have one.
I feel like there's gonna be picketing or some shit by the Judeo-Christian groups if we make them share, but I feel like there should be. People should be made aware how ridiculous this situation is. My roommate is a satanist, should we be fighting for her to have a religious building?

No. It doesn't matter.
They use some vague wording, but it's owned by an "independent trust"...likely through a subsidiary of the Cook family(?). 

The whole thing seems a bit suspicious. 

* As a facility located on campus but not "owned" by the university, you would think that this trust would then be paying royalties to the university for land use, property tax, etc. This may or may not be the case. 

* When people rent this facility for weddings (etc) or when student organizations rent the space for meetings (as I have done before), all of the rental process is done through the university AND the invoice to pay for using the space is addresses from AND payable to the university, not an independent trust. 

* Cook-Dewitt is very clearly designed as a prayer chapel, there's no arguing that. The simple fact that an obvious prayer chapel was allowed to be built on the campus of what's supposed to be a progressive, scientific university is a bit strange. 

Very suspicious. 

Conclusion: The university, as usual, is pandering to the hyper-conservative ideals of some of their largest donors.
You're likely right, but I don't think that public/university funds should be used for a) building b) maintaining or c) cleaning this space. 
We have a very conservative student body, and it sometimes fails to see how issues on campus influence the broader higher education community. 
What do we do, then, when that separation of Church and State conflicts with the 1st Amendment right to practice any religion?  It's clear that practicing on campus is extremely inconvenient.
Who pays for: 

* Building the space? 

* Stocking the space? 

* Maintaining the space?

* Cleaning the space?

In all likelihood, the answer to the above questions is the university, hence the problem. 
We could go back and forth on church-sponsored book burnings, oppression, and the perpetuation of beliefs that have been proven scientifically inaccurate/unlikely all day, but we both know where we stand on that and neither of us will budge as the result of a simple internet discussion. 

I'll only say one thing about it: There was a time period when religion and the church were heavily intertwined with government and public institutions. This time period is/was called the "Dark Age(s)" for a reason.

Anyway, this particular student senate resolution being discussed will have no effect on students of the Catholic faith. 

Students of the Catholic faith and other Judeo-Christian religions use the Cook-Dewitt center for their religious needs, and the Cook-Dewitt center is not part of the university. 

This new space is for use by the ~10% of students at our university who identify as being of a religion other than Judeo-Christianity (e.g. Muslim students, Hindu students, Buddhist students, etc)...and this new space will be part of the university. 

This whole thing isn't an issue of the religious vs the non-religious, this is an issue of the separation of church and state.   
Cook-Dewitt is not owned by the university.
It's nice to see they embrace the idea of equality of religion at least, but I don't think it would make sense to have the university build a religious building, nor do I think it was right to have the Cook-Dewitt center built on campus if it was going to be entirely based on Christian religions.
FWIW, I have absolutely no problem with the university providing equitably to accommodate people of any religion, or or no religion at all. In fact I would suspect that the university is legally obligated to provide equitable accommodations for all, if GVSU is going to provide for any one religion at all. That last "if" is the point of contention, and I will leave that for better minds to discuss. 
Then why is it there? Is it like how Grand River Aseptic is run through the university?
Most of GVSU's big name donors are very conservative and religious. 

The university likely allowed the Cook-Dewitt Center to be built on campus to keep the aforementioned donors happy.

Grand River Aseptic pays the university to use their space. That company was already located there when the university purchased the land, and the university doesn't plan on using that land in the near future, so they allowed the company to stay as long as they pay royalties to the university. 

When the university decides to develop that space, Grand River Aseptic will be kicked-out. 
okay. That makes sense. Why is GRA through our phone system, though? I'm a switchboard operator and get calls all the time for them.

We've been seeing a lot of simple question threads the last few days, so rather than spam the sub with individual threads, ask your questions here and feel free to answer any questions you know.

If you want to post about COVID-19 updates or changes at GVSU, please also post them here. **Don't post a new thread.** All COVID-19 questions/rants/etc. threads will be removed.

**Edit**: Adding common links -- please comment or message the mods if there are more we should add.

- [GVSU COVID-19 Dashboard](https://www.gvsu.edu/lakerstogether/data-dashboard-37.htm)
- [Ottawa County COVID Dashboard](https://covidactnow.org/us/mi/county/ottawa_county/?s=1006211)
- [Spectrum MyChart](https://mychart.spectrumhealth.org)
not sure this thread is necessary. this isnt that big of a sub where it gets flooded with questions daily. kinda just seems like an effort to make the covid posts less noticeable.
Relegating what's possibly the biggest point of concern for college students this year to one thread is absolutely stupid
All of my friends and I were exposed to someone with Covid. We all got tested on wednesday and still have not heard anything back. We all signed up for the myChart thing, but is there anything else we’re supposed to do? Seems kind of pointless to get tested here at GV if the turnaround time for results is 3+ days.

Edit: Just called the hotline, and they said i should have my results in 3-5 DAYS FROM NOW. Do they not realize how dangerous that is? There is almost no point in wasting your time getting tested here if your results could take up to a week to come in.
Check the last two weeks of posts, we’ve gotten a lot of common, one-question threads. Better to consolidate them than flood the sub.
If you have other ideas, please send them to the mods. 

As I see it, this sub doesn’t need daily updates as threads about the number of cases or questions about testing. Consolidating common questions removes a lot of unnecessary, one question threads (which we’ve seen quite a bit over the last two weeks).
I quarantined for five days before I got results and that was in July when they weren't processing GV tests.
Then do a faq and lock threads if the q is on there. Don't just kill all discussion on the topic. Any time a thread like this is made, it just kills any relevant discussion on it
I think a better idea would maybe be to make a “frequently asked questions” sticky at the top of the page, with things like a link to register for spectrum MyChart and a link to the GV COVID-19 dashboard, etc. 

That way, new posts can still be made, but the number of one liner repeat questions can decrease. 

I’m a little annoyed about the same question being asked on repeat, but I did really like the post from the student this morning (?) about the Harvard health COVID tipping-point model, and I like seeing other posts like it. It’s a shame that comments on that post were locked. 

Just food for thought.
yeah i understand that, and I have been. I’m just saying it’s dangerous because i’m sure there’s a lot of people here who aren’t like me and won’t quarantine until they see they’ve tested positive; by that point they’ve likely already infected many others.
Register email, open mailer, and you are entered in that week's drawing. Good luck! http://www.taylorkole.com/say-hello
I was there and had an interesting time during the Q&A section
I was 7
Good... For you? 
In my time here at GVSU I have seen NDT and John Kasich, one of those was a good time.
I remember talking to someone recently about how they talked to him when he visited, but I can't remember who. I think it was one of the on-air talents at WGHN in Grand Haven (I was an intern there, I worked with them a lot). 

Also, fun fact: apparently the Nuge rode his motorcycle through my old highschool way back.
https://GVSU.edu/registrar/importantdates.htm
I must be missing what I'm searching for 
The woman in the bottom right is frequent used as a "sheltered freshman" meme. 
I mean, he did break the law.
I suppose it depends on what was in the emails they were sending.
Someone high-up got egg on their face, so naturally they're taking it to extremes. It's absolutely an over-reaction, but it's not a surprise.
You're not wrong, and I agree with you, but I still am taken aback by it a little every time friends and I talk about it. I don't view emails in general the same as the law does, so when someone sends prank emails or something like that, I take it as a joke, never thinking that guy just broke the law even though, as you said, he did.
Everywhere in Allendale has inflated prices. Just drive to Meijer in Standale if you have the time. In a pinch that store by BK does the job though. The one by the Meadows is really pricy imo.
Liquor store by bk sells at state minimum.
Meijer in Standale. 
There are no "deals" on alcohol because the prices are state regulated. Michigan assigns each product a "state minimum shelf price" aka the lowest price a retailer is legally allowed to sell it for. 

All neighborhood stores will most likely upcharge $1-3 on the state minimum. D&W/Family Fare and Meijer both have state min prices because they don't need to make a profit on those products.
I always went to the one by bk and jj. I always had great service and the prices aren't so bad. But for the cheapest mejier is your best bet. 
Not drinking saves a lot of money.
Sam is a cheapskate and all of his beer and food are expired lol
So does not going to college, yet here we are... 
When I would go in there to buy an Arnold Palmer (99¢) I would give him a dollar and he would be like, "I keep penny." And I'm thinking no dude that's not how it works. You offer the penny and then I say, "No that's okay you can keep it." In all seriousness though it's a good place if you need something quick but you will absolutely spend more than needed.
I worked there for a year and it was the worst place I've ever been(and I spent two years at McDonald's). Everything is over priced and/or expired, he acts buddy buddy with people then talks shit as soon as they leave, and he creeps on girls with his dozen security cameras. 
He is a real bro when he gives you a condom for the night, but its also really really weird.
wait, is Sam the old Indian guy?
He's so cheap that he doesn't even like to give out bags for you to carry your items in. Dude is unbelievable.  
That's only a dilemma if you choose a major that won't allow your investment to pay off.
From the Assistant Direct of Event Services...

>Good Afternoon,
> 
>Campus Life Night is now taking place on Saturday, 9/12, from 6-8 in Lot H.  Registration will begin at 5:00 p.m. 
>Our attempt to reschedule for Sunday was well-intended but not properly informed.  Sunday is the first day of
>Rosh Hashanah and would present a barrier for all of our campus community to attend.  In keeping with our GVSU mission
>and values, we want this high impact event to be available for all students!  
> 
>Should your organization be unable to attend please let me know via email and we will remove you from the list. 
>I hope you’re able to join us.  I look forward to seeing you on Saturday!
> 
>Thank you very much for your time.
>
>Respectfully,

My Response...

>Good Afternoon,
>
>I briefly wanted to express my immense disappointment in the decision to reschedule Campus Life Night. Please let me direct you to the federal governments list of recognized holidays for 2015: http://www.archives.gov/news/federal-holidays.html
>
>Grand Valley State University is a public university and should formally observe the holidays that are dictated by our governing body. While I completely respect the views of people from all demographics on campus, it is a lot to ask of the student body to observe a holiday practiced by a small minority. The beauty of religious freedom is that an individual can observe their faith independently. Why are the beliefs of the tiny majority being forced upon the entire student body? To add, Rosh Hashanah starts at dusk the evening prior to the start date of the holiday. Could these students make accommodations to leave early instead of making everyone else accommodate to them? These questions and concerns place serious doubt on whether or not this situation was handled appropriately. In addition, rescheduling this event sets a new precedent >going forth for groups on campus to take issue with the scheduling of campus wide events. 
>
>Aside from these unfortunate implications, why was Saturday chosen as the rescheduled date? Were there any concerns raised about Saturday evening being a poor choice for the student attendance? As the president of a club on campus that draws many new member from Campus Life Night, I worry that our membership will be significantly less this year.
>
>I look forward to hearing your response. 
>
>Best regards,



I don't think you have a good argument that your membership will be lower because it's on a Saturday instead of a Sunday. In fact I could argue that more people will attend CLN on a Saturday night because many people are all working on their homework Sunday night.

I also don't understand why it's such a large deal in the first place but to each their own.
This disappoints me because I work Saturday night and as a transfer was really looking forward to checking our the various clubs.
Half of my eboard won't be there. The other half doesn't want to be there (commitments they would have to now break). This Saturday is a pretty busy day for a lot of people. I doubt it will be shoulder to shoulder like it has. I hope I'm wrong though.
My club is in a similar situation as the weekends are when we do all our trips and activities. It's also pretty common for freshman and students in general to go home on weekends. I heard far less complaints from people when event got moved to Sunday.
Kirkhof.
Stay classy, /r/GVSU.
Jerkoff can't even spell Kirkhof
OK i am currently a freshman at GVSU and am in the engineering college. The classes i am taking are math 201 (calc), WRT 150, CHM 115, and EGR 106. these tips are mostly for getting through EGR and will not help you much if you're already in the class and struggling.

tip 1): take a programming class! i recommend learning C++, my senior year of highschool i took a C++ programming class and it is very similar to the Arduino C that you will absolutely have to learn to get through his class! the problem that most people i know have with learning programming in this class is learning the logic of it. programming logic is something that is somewhat hard to learn, but after you do everything is MUCH easier. and if you dont have the ability to take a programming class in highschool, then you should get a debugging program (recommend codeblocks with a C++ compiler) and learn some programming over the summer. if you're going to learn yourself, then start with flow charts! this is important! the flowcharts help you understand the logic of how the program works.

tip 2): get a CAD program, and mess around. in EGR 106 you have to learn how to use the CAD program solidworks, now its hard to get this program because it's expensive so i suggest getting the next best thing: Autodesk Inventor. both software use the same methods to create 3D objects the main differences being the placement of buttons on the GUI. 

tip 3): if you do, or dont follow those tips above and find yourself having trouble what you need to do is make friends with people in the class. it can be hard to understand the material depending on how the professors present it, therefore the best thing you can do other than asking the professor (because it's hard to get to downtown offices hours as a freshman) is to ask your friends! organize meetings where you can all get together and do some homework/ projects if you get a big enough group someone is bound to understand it. if no one understands the programming, or you cant find anyone who does, then another thing you could do is as someone who is going into computer sciences, most CIS majors that i know have had highschool programming classes, and/or tried programming at home, they can help a lot!

this tips come from me, a person currently in the class who is having a much easier time than most of my friends in the class. 

PS: if you are currently in the class and having trouble with programming i can help, just send me a message and i can either try to explain some of it to you, or if my group of friends decides to meet to work on stuff i can invite you to it.
You're not in the engineering college yet mate, you have to apply for it. You're just taking engineering classes. That said. Make tons of friends. Anyone that can help you with a program or design is incredibly useful. First year is mainly about learning the basics and then a touch on the design aspect. I'm in my second year and I've changed from a bsee major to physics. But If you need any help or ideas pm man :) hope it works out for you. 
Tip 3 is pretty solid advice no matter what major you are choosing. 

Also, I agree with the comment about C++ and C, but for people who are _just_ starting out with programming, I'd recommend a more forgiving language like maybe Python or even R. Start simple, learn generic programming concepts and then make the leap to C/C++. 
Seconding the offer for help, I'm taking 106 right now and I've seen a ton of people in my class struggle with Arduino C. TBH I feel like not nearly enough time was spent in our class on coding, and people who were starting fresh got left behind real quick. I've got some prior experience with C and C++, and Arduino C is really just like a baby's-first flavor of C. So yeah hit me up if you've got trouble with it, I'll try to help you out!
Here's my advice: if you can't learn the concepts as they're introduced in the first semester of engineering, you may need to reconsider your major. It only gets harder as you go on. You're also only in one engineering class right now. You will never have that few ever again. 

Be careful giving advice as a first semester student. Let those kids who are struggling switch to another major before they invest more time in a program that only gets harder. 

Tip 3 is golden, though. Have at least a few people's numbers for late night homework questions. 
Engineering aside, I recommend that **everyone** take a programming course in high school. It's such an invaluable skill to have and the logical processes behind it will come in hand in countless situations down the road. 
Ya I see freshmen make the "college of" mistake all the time. Its especially true with engineering and medicine since they're competitive as fuck and there's a big chance of getting denied. 
i'd beg the differ, i did not apply to GVSU as most other people did, i applied to the GVSU engineering college, and on my path it even says that i am in the "Padnos Col of Egr & Computing" on my path. Additionally when they gave us our RFID entry cards they said "you will keep these with you until you graduate from, or drop out of the engineering college."
I have no idea why you are being downvoted on this, because you are absolutely right. 
yeah, you go to GVSU until you get accepted.
Same here,  accept I am in CS.  The admittance they're talking about is the second admit once you get your core done.
Wtf is this writing style 


Someone sign this girl up for some writing courses please.. This is brutal 
Why is the Odyssey a thing now? What does it even try to do?
No idea. It's like localized Buzzfeed.
It's so shitty, too. At least the Black Sheep has some good, original content.
Let's be honest, they're both incredibly mediocre. 
The Odyssey feels like a tumblr blog though lol.  
GVSU taking biased incidents seriously is one of the reasons I like the school. I also feel that professors shouldn't make stereotypical comments that make students feel uncomfortable. 

Both of their red flags seem to be good things to me. This isn't a state that people can be born into, this is a educational institution that people join willingly.
I think these red flags are only "limiting" if/when applied in overly sensitive cases. For example, if a student were to get a boatload of homework and therefore deem the situation as "lame", technically this could be reported as offensive as the term is 'able-ist'.

Otherwise I don't see these as particularly big threats to my free speech.
Is it nonsensical to have policies limiting bias and hate speech? If you're concerned about not publicly being able to be a racist asshole, then find a different college, bud.
Also, the supreme court's current status on free speech [here](http://www.uscourts.gov/EducationalResources/ClassroomActivities/FirstAmendment/WhatDoesFreeSpeechMean.aspx) states that 
>To incite actions that would harm others (e.g. “[S]hout[ing] ‘fire’ in a crowded theater.”).

is not considered free speech. I would say that words based on the criteria of a bias incident using language could be considered and action that has the potential to cause a considerable amount of harm.
Come on. They're weren't threatened with arrest for passing out the constitution. They were nearly arrested because they didn't follow the proper procedures to use the free speech zone. These are not the same things. 
One day old account and all it's posted is links to this article in multiple subreddits including t_d
A couple things strike me as funny about this video and situation in general.

1. The offender is talking in circular logic. He is being told directly what he can and can't do and is being asked questions, but is just repeating the same line.

2. This confrontation apparently last for quite a while (1+ hours), why is there only 2 minutes of highly cropped footage.

3. The officer asks, "Your making a movie right?" The footage is then cropped to remove anything further on that subject. That part is especially funny, because the GVSU Dept. of Communications has an entire process you need to go through in order to record anything on campus. Sure that can't really be enforced if you're not a student, but if you ARE a student, I imagine there are a couple things they could do.

4. These "Orwellian" free speech policies are hardly that. The approval process appears to be lenient (having been screamed at by conservative loons about burning in hell for eternity), so the vetting process appears to be less about controlling speech, and more so about making sure no one is advocating for school shootings or something insane like that.

5. I actually believe the two free speech zones are for the best, with maybe the addition of a third one downtown. ".03% of campus" may be a fair estimate of land actually owned by Grand Valley, but those two spots are the #1 and #2 most trafficked areas. What percentage of students walks through these areas. In addition, if I'm a stressed out student just trying to pass my classes, maybe, just maybe, I don't want to have political, social, economic, and religious philosophies being screamed at me everywhere I go.

6. No one cares about your anecdotal evidence. "I saw a liberal march, so its biased." Well, I haven't seen a liberal march, so as far as I can tell, its not biased. There problem solved. Get some actual documentation of this stuff if you expect me to care.
 
In the end, this whole lawsuit is garbage. No one is going to support you if it makes them feel like your wasting university time and money, and thus their own time and money. If you want the university to change set up a large scale protest. Social media is a hell of a thing; college students are way more interested in political activism than litigation.

Also, /u/jozefbem is an obvious shill account. "Patriotic students threatened with arrest for handing out pocket constitutions at GVSU" posted to the donald? Please, this whole incident gave off a sovereign citizen vibe.

In addition, if you REALLY want a good chuckle, venture down into the comment section of the article for a good laugh.

"I would have forced the cops to arrest me and Trespass me from College that I am paying for... Watch them try to explain that trick to a Federal Judge."

I agree. I'd pay big bucks to watch that play out.

"Socialism is/has taken over the educational system. You need to get permission to do everything from the politburo. Your rights and liberties are a thing of the past."

I forgot the part where a socio-economic system was directly related to concepts of free speech and constitutional rights.
The officer and the policies he's explained seem very reasonable. Seems like these students are making mountains out of mole hills
Yes they were.  GVSU constantly let liberal groups on campus protest outside of free speech zones to their hearts content.  They have arrested / threatened to arrest people who do not adhere to their agenda. 

The school should try following the rules - like the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.
You'll eat your words when GVSU loses the suit in federal court.
Being threatened with arrest for exercising your rights is "making mountains out of mole hills?"
For the sake of argument let's pretend that what you're saying is accurate. You're entire argument here is that two wrongs make a right? Those people who I don't like broke a rule so I get too as well is just a silly argument to make. 
They were not following the policies. It's not abnormal to have free speech zones and limits on solicitation, especially on a campus. There's a point when it becomes trespassing. 
Has anyone ever taken Microbiology, BMS 212, with Derek Thomas? Or possibly Microbiology in general at GV, as I'm sure all their finals are similar. Any pointers or things to focus on for the final? Did they curve the grade at all in the end? I need all the help I can get! 

Thanks GV redditors! And good luck on your finals. 
I had BMS 212 with Thomas last year during the winter semester (so, exactly a year ago). 

As I recall, the final was ~130 MC questions (which seemed INSANE because we only have 110 minutes--I hope that he realized his mistake in that). It was about 2/3 stuff from the unit we had just learned, and then 1/3 cumulative. I remember feeling disappointed because I spent a fair amount of time learning every detail of every virus, and there weren't that many virus questions on there (a big chunk of our last unit was viruses). The cumulative questions were not exact questions from previous exams, but were similar. There were not many questions from the first exam unit. I also think there may have been a few extra credit questions, but could be getting it confused with another exam. 

I can't remember if he curved the final grades or not. He may have replaced a low normal exam grade with the final exam grade if it was higher. Again, I can't exactly recall. 

It was a difficult exam, but nothing groundbreaking. I found it to be a little bit easier than his normal exams. The format may have changed since then. Pay attention to the study guide I'm sure he gave out--each study guide he gave us was so detailed, he really made it clear what he expected us to know. It's a lot of stuff, but some of it you'll also be learning in other classes (BMS 291, biochem (232 or 461), BIO 355, etc) so if you cement it now it will be like a review later on. Good luck! 
Thanks for the tips! We actually have 150 questions on the test and only 1/3 is from the most recent material. So we'll see how rushed I am during the test. 
Thanks again. 
Hello r/GVSU

My name is Nick Raak and I am running to be re-elected to GVSU Student Senate, and I am asking for your vote. If elected, I promise to:

\- Advocate for better funding for GVSU. With better funding, students can have better access to university resources (like the infamously terrible parking) while avoiding the cost.

\- Increase civic engagement for students. Especially with the 2020 elections coming up, it's important to get better participation among students regardless of their political affiliation. I've already been working on this with [a bill unanimously passed this month](https://www.gvsu.edu/cms4/asset/68CD24DD-C5CE-ACD3-A1C4698B1764F93F/s-20-03__urge_grand_valley_state_university_to_amend_the_class_attendance_policy_to_allow_excused_absences_for_voting.pdf) to urge GVSU to implement an excused absence policy to voting. 

\- Keep the university accountable to the students. It's important to advocate for the entire student body by working with GVSU administration to improve transparency and communication.

If you agree with my platform and want real change for GVSU, vote for me

Students are given 10 votes, so feel free to vote for whoever else you like. Voting ends Sept. 20.

To learn more about me, [click this link](https://www.gvsu.edu/studentsenate/meet-the-candidates-123.htm?recordId_1=48A8F8AB-A3BC-2D75-3D3CB50ABE1B7A68#1BB436A3-A938-F98F-B1B8385F6145BAE1).

To vote, [click this link](https://www.gvsu.edu/studentsenate/vote).
What's your sapply test result
Voted
X: 3.6
Y: 3.3
Progressive: 4.4
Has anyone noticed some of their online 2020 courses have switched to online. I signed up for in person classes that meet weekly during registration in May and recently noticed that a few of those same courses no longer list in person times but rather online times. Is this an error in the system or on my part, or has GVSU started moving some courses online without notice. Thanks!
Yep we will all know what our new schedules are by the end of July. They’re going to notify us when they’re done making the changes in banner
To allow for proper social distancing in classrooms, they can’t have as large a class as normal, leading to need more hybrid/online courses. They are trying to balance student preferences with proper safety measures.
They started updating banner around the end of June (no warning). I think they're planning on releasing information once the registration hold ends on the 13th.
I registered today and most of the classes are online and some meet on campus on specific dates...
yeah four of my five classes switched to online or hybrid and I only got an email about it for one class over a month ago. The rest I found out about on my own recently.
Right. Didn't realize they were switching courses to online. The registrar said that in person classes would not be affected.
Yeah...I saw that. I didn't realize they were changing the schedule that much though. Thanks
I guess you mileage may vary. Only 2 of my classes got switched. Im waiting for the other shoe to drop though especially with schools like Harvard and MIT going online.
I've been at GVSU for an embarrassingly long time, and I've never had a bad experience with DPS. Sure, sometimes they fail to unlock the building I work in on weekends, but it's usually because they're tied up with something urgent. All of my personal interactions with DPS officers have been polite and professional, so I always wonder what the problem is when I see/hear complaints about DPS like this.
I believe what OP is referring to is the "party patrol" on weekends. 

This "party patrol" is funded with grants from the Michigan Office of Highway Safety and Planning. Their sole purpose is to give kids MIPs. Seriously. The program is called "Get Wasted, Get Busted."
Have that much trouble with them? Care for an explanation?
Multiple MIP recipient reporting in. Yes, they are that bad. DPS/GVPD + Judge Post = very expensive 
Agreed. When I locked my keys in the car, they dispatched an officer to let me in. When she didn't have the proper tools with her, she stayed and made small-talk with me until someone with the right equipment showed up. They let me in and I was on my merry way.
Room for rent at Off Broadway Apartments. Close to downtown, great window view. Windows in living room provide excellent light. Apartment in excellent condition, close to GVSU. Good sized room, walk in closet, carpeted. Water, sewer, trash, parking included in rent. Tenant pays electric, monthly cost is typically $50-70 , stove and heat are electric. You will have 3 roommates. Because it is dorm style there will be new roommates for this new lease term. The lease is 12 months but may be ended early by finding a sub-letter if desired.
If you need an internship for CIS 490/499, or otherwise, I'm interviewing candidates who know ruby or a comparable language for a rails internship at [FoodCircles](http://joinfoodcircles.org).

* internship is unpaid but credit-approved
* The app is built on rails and lets you pay $1+ for a special dish at one of 20 restaurants and give 100% of that to feeding a local child in need (fulfilled through our distribution partner)
* Our stack is based on git, a public GH repo, and linux vps hosting

Contributions will include tracking usage patterns, helping new nonprofits partner with us, letting users send dishes to friends, etc.  Weekly meetups downtown and a crew of volunteers to work alongside.

I work in coordination with CEI and would love to chat if it interests ya.  Thanks to GVSU_Nate for the tip to post up here. Enjoy the snow day and throw a snowball for me!
Anybody that's been through either the CS or IS program at GVSU should not be accepting an un-paid internship. Your skills are valuable and there are plenty of employers that will pay you what you deserve, even as an intern.
I hear ya spares. If there's a better option out there for students still looking, by all means.
Wishing we had the funding for it! Best of luck to all candidates seeking..
It'll break my heart to keep perusing this subreddit but I'll probably keep doing it. It's been a fun 4 years.
Graduating in 4 years is like leaving a party at 10:00.

You should stick around!
Same.
Me too! Congratulations! :)
Hahaha graduating in 4 years OMG. (I'm just jealous). 
Hahaha graduating in 4 years OMG. (I'm just jealous). 
you're right, i'm doing it
I was in a sociology capstone course with some of these guys. They're certainly on the very left wing of the political spectrum, and I argued against a lot of their anarchist perspectives, but they bring up valid points about The Rapid shifting the retirement burden from the corporation to the workers to make up for pension shortfalls of $2.7 million. 

Here's an m-live article about it:

http://www.mlive.com/news/grand-rapids/index.ssf/2015/10/rapid_bus_pension.html
This video made my head hurt, these guys followed around a group of EXTREME left wing idiots (about 15 people out of a 20,000 student college) for a day and accomplished what? I could go to a tea party rally and create a video that would be just as ridiculous as this one. 
Weird that this is literally the first time Ive heard of this protest on campus 
I thought it was funny how they were going to protest with a bunch of drivers, but no one showed up.  
I actually graduated a couple years ago and spent all of my time at the downtown business school for the last two years of my time at GV. So I didn't have to deal with all the gender study/safe space bs in Allendale. I stumbled across the video and was surprised to find there are full blown communist aligned organizations on campus. Thought I would drop it on the GVSU sub to see what the response would be. This must not be a very lively sub.
it isn't
Boston University Is First To Announce It May Postpone Its Fall Term Until January 2021
https://www.forbes.com/sites/susanadams/2020/04/13/boston-university-is-first-to-announce-it-may-postpone-its-fall-term-until-january-2021/
As people start talking about tuition reduction we have to realize that we are lucky that GV is planning to stay open. We also have to realize that GV is a tuition driven school. It received only about 13% of its funding from the state this fiscal year. BU is a private top research university. It has many more options than GV. 

 GV will make it through this time but it will be required to change faster than ever before. To address change we will all need to stay abreast about the moves being made by other institutions, as well as many other variables.
I guess I’ll go for a run 🙃
U can run but u cant hide from it...muahaha
I think this is hilarious that his quote says that "facts don't care about your feelings" when republicans don't care about [facts](https://youtu.be/xnhJWusyj4I) 
It hasn't been approved with the stamp either. So you can actually take these down. It's the physical equivalent to spam.
What is this for? The paper is so vague
I've seen these posters plastered everywhere around campus, and I still only know of Ben Shapiro as some headass that alt-righters beat off to. 
Like you're allowed to have an opinion and you're allowed to present your opinion to an audience, but don't be a goddamn fuck about it.  I saw these flyers taking over a bulletin board in mack the other day
Quote from r/enoughtrumpspam:

> You know, facts doesn't matter, it's about feelings. I feel that white people are oppressed and crime is going up. I just feel it.
Really? I didn't realize that there needed to be an approval stamp on bulletins. I'd seen them before, but that's a pretty neat system.
This is really valuable information, thanks! 
yeah I don't know what's happening either and it doesn't look bad though. I mean it mentions the left but I don't see how he's an idiot?
He speaks at colleges a lot.  An alt-right supporter.  His spiel in a nutshell is that facts invalidate your hurt feelings, and if your feelings are hurt, you clearly don't know facts or do research.  

He basically tells you that if you know facts, you're not entitled to having your feelings hurt.  

In a more modern/social sense: "Blacks commit crime the most crime, here are the stats that show this, so you can't be upset that police give you shit for being black."
If you knew what the alt right actually was or anything about ben, you'd know that he is actually hated by the alt right and despises them as well. They tweet their hatred for him quite often. So, no actually they don't beat off to him. That's weird.
Yeah after so long, they are taken down. They only have a like a 2-3 week period that they can be up even with the stamp.
Actually, if you have ever listened to anything shapiro has said you would know he hates the alt right and the alt right Hates him. He's constantly getting tweeted racist things and threats from alt righters and speaks out against them on a daily basis. Also the rest of your statement doesn't need to be commented on since the first thing you said clearly identifies that you have no idea who ben shapiro is.
he's not alright genius.

he's never said for black's to disregard the fact that we/they're being shot by the police. If anything, he's stating that we wants them to acknowledge their hypocrisy.

lol.

but, i'm sure a jew is loved by the altright /s
When I took Moes for Philosophy of Religion, he constantly talked shit about being an atheist. Phrases such as "So-and-so was an atheist. I always thought they were smarter than that." were common.
Sounds pretty straight forward to me. Moes has a reputation for being an upstanding Catholic, and some of his work involves his religion. The second case seems inappropriate too. It's not really the role of an educator to expouse political or social opinions whether they be conservative or liberal. Granted, conservatives get in trouble for this more than their counterparts (When I was in Lib Arts classes, I heard more political opinions from professors than was welcome), but nobody here is being censored from anything were welcome to say in the first place. 

Both professors will probably get a slap on the wrist if they're tenured like Moes is, and told to keep their opinions in their pocket. 
Less so the silencing of opinions such much as addressing unwarranted discussion in the classroom environment. It is appropriate for students to be upset at professors for irrelevant political/social/religious discussion, just like I would expect students to be upset at their peers if they tried to force their unwarranted opinions into a discussion.
Looking for Stewart Calc, all levels, Multivariable.  Also, Diff Eq, basic Eng like Statics, Basic Electric, and Linear Alg.

Basically these books which are not worth trading in or selling.
All I want to know is the ranking of specified places that were asked in the survey. Thanks and good luck!
Starts at 3:37. Or you can watch the video because it's pretty interesting.

Edit: Sorry I guess the URL didn't work. Here it is:

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZHFcdouE06s&feature=player_embedded#!
What video might that be?
Wow. That hurt.
When submitting a link - do not click the text tab, my roommate did this on a post a few days ago and was quite confused. Also, this is probably worse than the meme page on facebook...
Oh sorry I've never submitted a link before =/ 

Here it is:

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZHFcdouE06s&feature=player_embedded#!
Thanks, and yeah, you're right - complete misuse of memes.
Question for Finance majors - Is a D- considered a passing grade for Finance?

I know Accounting major requires a C- or better for accounting courses, but I don’t see anything like that for finance. 

Plz lmk so I know if I can half ass the rest of my finance class this semester to graduate lol. Thanks.
I’ve never heard a D- be passing for anything. 

>	Plz lmk so I know if I can half ass the rest of my finance classes this semester to graduate lol. Thanks.

Wat
D- is definitely not passing lol
I’ve never heard of a D- being passing.
It would be very difficult to find ANY major that considers D to be a passing grade
Wait wait wait. You’ve had a d- for 13 weeks presumably giving more than half-ass effort, and you want to half-ass now? Bust your ass to get a c-
D- isn’t a grade at GVSU. It’s D or F. Source: I’m a prof who enters grades into Banner on the regular.
Definitely would not hire anyone of any major trying to slide by with D- lol
I earned a D- (it happens) in a class and transferred all my classes over to GV without an issue. Not sure if that helps.
If you were attending MSU, or one of the other state universities that allow students to elect P/F after grades are posted with a D being considered a passing grade, you would pass.  GVSU’s administration must not care what most other state universities are doing, or just wants to make more money from students repeating classes and extending their education
Holy judgey in this thread right now. I’ve got a C in the class right now. I’m also taking 18 credits this semester on top of 30+ hours of work a week. I have a job lined up after graduation so what’s the fuss with me wanting to half ass to focus more on my future career (and my 5 other classes). Unreal how quick some of you jump to conclusions. All you did in your reply was judge and arrive at conclusions for no reason. 3.5 Seidman GPA accounting and finance major working every day all 4 years to pay for my classes. Get the fuck out of here telling me to bust my ass - Take your goofy ass elsewhere.
Yeah I got told the same thing when I asked advisor and undergrad program haha oops
Thanks for being the only person to show kindness
Nah I talked to advisors and professors and every person in here is dead wrong. A D is a passing grade at GVSU.
I did make some huge assumptions there lol. I apologize for that. It’s not my place to give unsolicited advice and I hope you’re able to get a passing grade in the class (whatever that may be). 

Also, just tell me to GFMY. You don’t owe me any explanation on whatever your grades may or may not be.
Yeah idk why everyone’s being so negative. They could’ve chose a million different ways to respond. Grades don’t define us character does.
If you chose P/F or credit/no credit at GV with the cutoff date to make this decision 2 weeks into the semester you have to get a C or better to receive credit.  Yes, D is considered passing but would not be if one chose the credit/no credit option.
No need for me to say that to you. It takes a man to admit when he has done something wrong (I struggle with it myself) so you have all my respect. I’m also sorry if my response to you was aggressive.
Yup. And it’s the fact that I’ve been struggling mentally from the nonstop grind this past year has been for me, and all I wanted was to find solace to know if my grade dropped below a C that I would still pass and graduate. This world (and specifically GVSU students) lack decency and character nowadays.
Right. I’m not even concerned about GPA. I’ve got a 3.5 and I could care less bc I have job lined up. I just wanted to make sure I’d still receive credit for the course with a D
Oh I feel ya. Don’t give up though. There’s better days ahead!
I wonder what were they arrested for? Just having a weapon does not necessarily break any laws.
BB gun lol. 
It sounds like he was wanted for unrelated crimes. 
Connected to the wifi cause it can take up to 72-hours to register my computer apparently. My speeds are all over the place, I'll get 1 mb download with 2 mb upload, re-test my net and end up with 1.7 mb download and 11 mb upload. The fuck is this shit...

*edit*  Whoops, meant mb not gb. 
Use Ethernet, it will be very stable. Also, try using alternative wireless networks, such as GVGuest or eduroam (both will accept your regular school account, but use your full email address for eduroam). The problems you're seeing are from congestion add all students come back to campus. It will improve in a week or two.
Welcome to GV's WiFi. I loved my years there, but not the internet. 
Where can I sign up?! 
Thanks for the suggestion, but even with my ethernet cable my connection fluctuates like crazy. I just hope it evens out by next week...
I assume they were significantly more extreme than before. Last year it was just an old guy with a sign who didnt say much. There is a pretty clear line between free speech and hate speech. Whether or not I'm interested in hearing about repenting my sins its not hate speech and should be allowed. But these stories of the people laughing at suicide, judgement based on how these people look or sexual orientation, and deliberately being rude for no other reason that to get people angry could easily be described at hate speech. 

Its easy to ignore a sign as per the articles suggestion, its hard to ignore a personal attack. 
The account described in the article (assuming it is completely accurate), is not just this religious group exercising its First Amendment right to free speech. This is flat out verbal abuse. There is a moral obligation that GVSU has to protect all of its students from being verbally accosted by roaming bands of religious zealots. Grand Valley should absolutely be doing more to protect students from this Constitutionally protected brand of bullying instead of cowering behind their lawyers.
For those interested, here's a [link](http://www.skepticmoney.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/Brother-Jed-Bingo-Card-1-01.png) to "Brother Jed Bingo" 
There is no line. Hate speech *is* free speech. You don't have to like it, but you can't deny a person's right to speak their mind.
It is. I'm the girl in the article, and all I did was address the students. I told them that the photos Brother Jed was taking are put online to gather donations, and the woman started screaming after me. I tuned her out and kept walking, so I didn't hear a lot of what she said about me, but students came up after me and told me. I guess she got pretty extreme. Someone told me I was thr fourth person she told that they were going to commit suicide. Another girl said the woman told her her over eating was a sin, and I saw another girl standing on the side lines get called a green haired whore. 
Actually you can.
Yeah, there's multiple religious groups that hold signs. If you see a woman waving menstrual pads around and a man taking photos, it's probably brother Jed. 
I really don't understand the hatred for DPS. I've interacted with them numerous times, and they've always been courteous and professional, even when they caught me snooping around somewhere I shouldn't have been. The worst they've ever done by me is fail to unlock the building I work in on weekends.

If somebody has had a bad experience with DPS, there's a good chance that they were doing something stupid and/or illegal.
It isn't a moral argument at all.  Under 21 it is illegal to be intoxicated. ~~A person is considered an open container.~~ Minor in possession. So don't break the law?

Fuck, a few of the cops I knew (and still know) at GVSU hate writing people for pot because they don't think it should be illegal, but they do their jobs. Personally I'm for no drinking age and legalize all drugs, but I respect the officers who do their jobs. They aren't sending a message to drive yourself, they are sending a message 'we do our jobs'.

People, it isn't just youth, have a problem with officers for enforcing the laws that are enacted by the legislature they vote for. Change the law, don't beat up on the people enforcing them because you don't agree with the law. (And I'm not accepting arguments about 'just following orders', these cops are not Nazis.)

Edit: Wrong wording.
Seeing as we will not convince each other I bid you good day on this first night of snowfall in beautiful west Michigan.

Night.
Where the fuck is his helmet???
How many subs did you post this too?
haha... I always ride with one now!
eh... a few. how much is that frowned upon? reddit-beginner here...
My ex boyfriend's cousin took a tumble while snowboarding a couple of years ago. She wasn't wearing a helmet, and her brain exploded and was leaking out of every orifice in her head. Her poor friends that witnessed this. :( I will never not wear a helmet again. 
You're doing fine sport. Gotta get dat karma! 
Very sorry to hear that. I can't imagine taking my board out without my helmet now.
It will probably be available to watch online at a later time. 
Bribery?  Seems to be just an incentive to get more people to help out a cause.  

Besides, you're supposed to eat and drink after donating anyways.  Every blood drive will (or should) have snacks and drinks for after you donate.
This is very common and a great partnership that MI blood has worked out with Papa John's. Having eaten over a dozen blood pizzas myself it has paid off many times.
Lol freshmen
Blood pizzas are the best pizzas

I know. I just thought it was funny how many times they wrote 'pizza' on the form living up to the college stereotype 
This has been going on for many years. It makes sense.
Not sure they are on here. But call up the new chief, she will sit down and talk with you or answer any questions you have. 
If you have any questions, people might be able to help answer them on here.  Some of us may have worked there in the past
Since coming to this university, it's almost like everyone I've come into contact with is strictly conservative. I don't stick with a certain mold of thinking and hold different views on topics, guess I'm just wondering where other people like that are? 


It's western Michigan, what did you expect? Honestly, there are as many liberals are there are righties at GVSU. Maybe you're looking in the wrong places? 
In my time at GV, it's been less of a "Right vs Left" thing and more of a "Wow, I can't believe how ignorant or apathetic everyone is" thing.
Odd, as nearly every person I've come into contact with in one of my gen ed classes was loudly and emphatically liberal about everything.
I attended GV from 06-10. Honestly , it's more apparent freshman year how religious/conservative some people are there. Once you get out of the dorms, you'll find lots of pretty cool, open minded people. I'm honestly not surprised this is still so frequent now; even with the recent popularity of the university.
It's caused by a severe lack of pancake mix amongst religious folk:

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qwyZ0ji1GRU
Since moving into downtown GR, I have met so many more left minded people from GV. Just an observation
On a county-by-county basis, the [Michigan] county which contributes the most students to GVSU is Kent County (part of the Grand Rapids metro area, and home to the city of Grand Rapids). 

Kent County is a "blue" county, but not by much. It went Obama over Romney in the last election (barely). 

Other counties in the Grand Rapids metropolitan area include Barry County, Montcalm County, and Ottawa County. Depending on who's doing the classification, sometimes Allegan County, Muskegon County, and Ionia County are also included. 

**So, for the Grand Rapids metro area, we have:** 

* **Kent County = Blue** 
* Barry County = Red 
* Montcalm County = Red 
* Ionia County = Red 
* **Muskegon County = Blue** 
* Allegan County = Red 
* Ottawa County = Red 

So, with 5 out of 7 Grand Rapids-area counties "red", you can see why most people think of West Michigan as being conservative. 

*Much of this data is from the 2010 census and/or the 2012 presidential election    

Most people who analyze this data would attribute the "blue" status of Muskegon County as being due to their high minority population. 

Most people who analyze this data would attribute the "blue" status of Kent County as being due to the fact that it's home to the city of Grand Rapids, which means high education levels, a diverse populous, and a young, urban core. 

Now, behind Kent County, the Michigan county that contributes the 2nd most students to GVSU is Oakland County, part of the metro Detroit area. 

According to 2012 presidential election data, Oakland County is also a "blue" county (as all of the other counties in the metro Detroit area: Wayne, Monroe, Macomb, etc...) 

Anyway, what I'm getting at here is that the 2 counties that contribute the most students to GVSU (Kent and Oakland) are both left-leaning counties...so it always surprises me when people think of the GVSU student body as being conservative. 



The stereotype coming to GVSU was that the area was conservative but the school was liberal. What I found when I got here was that the area I grew up in (Livingston County in SE Michigan) was more conservative than the GR area (at least in my experience). Surprisingly, the students that I met from Grand Haven were some of the most liberal people that I met during my freshman year (one was an outspoken socialist).   
It's Grand Rapids, just look at how the area votes. 
GVSU is pretty liberal. 
Lots of religious people.
Its something I never noticed while growing up here. Then I did my undergrad at central and came back for grad and I couldn't believe how crazy people were around here.
I just deleted my original comment halfway through out of apathy. Whoops.
This
It's incredibly subjective. Conservatives will say it's super liberal, and liberals say it's very conservative.

 To be honest though, I do not see the conservative side. There is an LGBT center on campus for crying out loud. There are always movements (occupy the valley for example) and organizations that are aimed to liberals. I guess something is making people call us a conservative campus. Im not seeing the reasoning though. 
My girlfriend has family in Mount Pleasant. Between visiting friends at CMU and visiting her family, I can honestly say that Mt. P is one of the crazier places in Michigan in regard to the people that congregate there. 
anyone going? i kinda need a ride
I think your title is misleading.

Heart damage possibly linked to Covid would be better.

They don’t know what these athletes hearts looked like before Covid.
Hello! Just moved here recently in the fall, and people told me this place was very strict about smoking and drinking does anyone know of any places around Allendale campus to smoke? Thank you so much
Depends on what you’re smoking
Walk off campus and then back on campus
Is GV a smoke free campus now? Or are we talking about Jazz Cabbage?
In the woods is really the only risk free place
Go out on the trail behind GVA
Those basketball courts behind Holton Hooker is an ideal spot to smoke. Used to smoke there all the time as a freshman... I’m assuming you’re talking about weed. 

Otherwise, build a sploof and smoke in your bathroom if ur roommates/suitemates are chill. Did this all the time. 

If the cops come knocking get any paraphernalia out of sight, step out into the hall and do not let them in. They’ll threaten you over and over, but they can’t really do shit.
Just do the towel under the bathroom (if you have a personal one) door trick if you're that worried. Pot smoke doesn't linger anywhere near as bad as cigarettes in the slightest. I used to do it out my window, but I was off the ground and did it quietly so while it did smell outside, no one knew where it was coming from. 

No matter what you do, if you're still worried, take a piece of dryer fabric softener, and use a rubber band to affix it to the end of a paper towel roll, the breathe your smoke out thru that
Drugs r illegal
Was always a big fan of the ole towel under the bathroom door trick, turn on the fan and you'll be Gucci
Towel under the bathroom door doesn't work. And bathroom doesn't work. If there isn't a window then you shouldnt of it in that area if your doing it inside. Ik forsure bc I had a roomates do it, and it had the apartment and everyone else in the apartment's room smelling. So ole bathroom trick does not work in these apartments or dorms.
Ravines, d lot, golf course... But honestly you can smoke any where on campus during the day.  Used to smoke spilfs on the way to class.  In reality GVPD is extremely lenient compared to real police.
Except they aren't anymore.
For the record, GVPD are real police, fully licensed by the state. In fact, they're the most thoroughly trained in Ottawa County. They are the primary law enforcement within the Allendale campus (and the downtown campus during business hours).
On the way to class? U serious? Wow Man U got some balls
Except they are, federal law bud.
Yea but like my post says they're pretty lenient.. especially when  compared to Ottawa.
Just don't act like you're smoking weed and you blend right in.. no one ever even asked for a hit
Lol don't get so salty i'm just stating facts bud, i didn't say anyone gives a shit now did i?
Okbuddy
Who the heck robs college kids? We're all broke. 
What happened was the police department got a new captain. She looks into they laws and GVSU was lagging behind in what they were supposed to be telling students in terms of threats. Thus to bring us up to code with the law we get notified when anything happens. The same crimes that have happened before are happening now and now we are just more aware of the crimes that take place on campus. No need to be any more afraid than you were last year
I was saying almost a month ago that we've had more shit go down so this year than all of last year combined. I bet those emergency buttons start to be put around campus in the next few years.

That being said it was shocking how low it has been in the past, so I'm not sure if that means it didnt exist in the past, or if the school is actually bothering to tell us about it now.
Honestly I think stuff like this has happened before it is just unreported publicly. Look up the reports GVPD has put out of all campus crime and you'd be surprised everything that's happened. And this is only the stuff reported. 

It has always been prevalent it is just the information and notifications of these crimes are now sent publicly. 
Ya, if they took the valuables they'd  just end up with a bunch of old MacBooks and Ugg boots. 
They might not have a lot of cash on hand but near everyone walks around with a pricey computer in their backpacks and an iPhone in their pocket. College kids are not in poverty by any means. 
So what I got from this... We had a captain that didn't follow the law. 
We've had the emergency text/call/email system for ~8 years
Right because gifts aren't a thing and poverty can't happen extremely quickly...
http://media0.giphy.com/media/PS7d4tm1Hq6Sk/giphy.gif
True but it is only now being used much more frequently on things like these robberies as opposed to if there's a tornado in the area.
And the crime reports they post annually were still really low. My mother is health and safety coordinator at UM Flint, she said that this campus was one of the best in the state.
Who's buying them these gifts? Parents. Most college kids have strong support from their parents (most, not all), especially in an area like West Michigan. Poverty is a living situation. Those who are impoverished are surrounded by a complete lack of basic human needs with little hope of getting out. There very well may be students on campus coming from impoverished areas, namely Detroit and Chicago, who see us as easy money. 

What I'm really saying is that we are extremely fortunate to be living and going to school in this area. Don't play yourself down as broke when we are at the top of the food chain. 
Yep. Just because we've had the emergency system, doesn't mean that it was being used to inform students of crimes.

I also think it's worth noting the influx in students over the last four years. Freshmen are being put in off-campus housing. It was a requirement when I was a freshman to live in GVSU freshman housing.
I have said this before and I will say it again, I would rather it be two hours with the facts and investigation straight instead of creating unnecessary hysteria. 
GVSU Pew sits right next to two major pedestrian river crossings between Downtown and the West Side. This funnels people right next to/through campus. Inherently there will be all sorts of people walking through that corridor at all hours of the day. 
Seriously does gvsu need to email you the second someone SUSPECTS someone has a weapon or is being shady?  Let the police do there job and if there's a threat then they'll tell you but seriously chill the fuck out you act like there was someone shooting up the school and they didn't tell you 
GV clearly labeled the message as a timely one. So it's cool.
Update: 

This man has now been arrested: [Link](https://twitter.com/GVSUPolice/status/522813913348714497)

 
With so many students from Detroit who go here I thought you all would be used to randos with guns. Chill the fuck out everybody, it wasn't some Poindexter with a grudge, just some random street thugs. 
Didn't even realize that. Wow. Thanks for the quick update, GV. Glad to know many of my friends could easily have been walking there at that time. 
Jeff you need to change your flair soon, right? :P
If there's ever a potential live shooter situation on campus, every second counts. 

Sure, send out a full, detailed, factual report later...but I think something brief should have been sent out immediately. 
This man has now been arrested: [Link](https://twitter.com/GVSUPolice/status/522813913348714497)

So yeah, he could have been an innocent passerby within his rights to carry a weapon...but he wasn't. 
This man has now been arrested: [Link](https://twitter.com/GVSUPolice/status/522813913348714497)

So yeah, he could have been an innocent passerby within his rights to carry a weapon...but he wasn't. 
Are you ever gonna change yours? :P
I agree, but the fact this was off campus and probably weren't students it isn't illegal to carry a concealed weapon in the state. This was a matter of informing the masses about what was reported. If the statement was issued immediately those three men who could be doing nothing illegal and fully within their legal rights would have been potential victims of an unnecessary witch hunt. 

However if they started opening fire by all means notify the masses immediately.
Live shooter? I saw "weapon," not "gun."
But don't let the facts get in the way...
Shut up llama
Ya exactly. I read this earlier and I kept waiting for them to list the crimes that he supposedly committed, but obviously there wasn't any.. 



People are acting like having a gun automatically makes him a potential shooter. Might as well start searching cars because I know plenty of kids with their hunting equipment (bows, rifles, etc) in their trunks parked on campus, and they haven't gone on any rampages 
This man has now been arrested: [Link](https://twitter.com/GVSUPolice/status/522813913348714497)

So yeah, he could have been an innocent passerby within his rights to carry a weapon...but he wasn't. 
Man, you are name-dropping so hard in this thread.  That's what T. Haas said, anyway.
This man has now been arrested: [Link](https://twitter.com/GVSUPolice/status/522813913348714497)

So yeah, he could have been an innocent passerby within his rights to carry a weapon...but he wasn't. 
You do realize that was the first time I'd even ever seen the guy
Good idea. Let's just assume he's evil. Who needs cops? Who needs judges and juries? Every non student walking around near GVSU downtown is worthy of suspicion! Arrest 'em all!
Oh, wait... There's that pesky Constitution... You can't just arrest people because they rub you the wrong way. Just because this guy was potentially up to no good doesn't mean they all will be, nor was this guy an "active shooter" or anything of the sort. His proximity to GVSU was merely a coincidence and had no direct connection to GVSU. 
Good idea. Let's just assume he's evil. Who needs cops? Who needs judges and juries? Every non student walking around near GVSU downtown is worthy of suspicion! Arrest 'em all!
Oh, wait... There's that pesky Constitution... You can't just arrest people because they rub you the wrong way. Just because this guy was potentially up to no good doesn't mean they all will be, nor was this guy an "active shooter" or anything of the sort. His proximity to GVSU was merely a coincidence and had no direct connection to GVSU. 
T. Haas, or Jeff? I've never seen Jeff on reddit before, either, but I've had a number of chill elevator conversations with T. Haas on my deliveries.
T Haas. 
I'll have you know I bought my textbooks and only cried for 20 minutes
If you don't buy from the book store you don't get fucked. It isn't that hard to make your money back if you go on Amazon and sell them when you're done with them.

Just remember to buy online way before classes start.
This post is in violation of intergalactic law.
I’m kind of not serious about it but the sections that fit in my schedule are full. This is what I get for changing my major after registration...
Email someone who is teaching psy 300, they're usually pretty flexible with an add. I would probably try to get in with Kurby
I tried to do an override, but it got denied. If emailing could be effective, I’d do it.
That's what I've done in the past. A well written email can go a long way
Awesome, Thanks!
So I'm 25 and applying to begin school in winter 2016. I recently caught misdemeanor charges for driving on suspended license, improper transport of medical marijuana, and false information to an officer. 

I don't want to have to select 'yes' on the question about pending charges, fearing this will ruin my chances. I also don't want to wait until it's resolved, as you never know what'll happen in Judge Post's courtroom. If I get sent to jail or something, I may not be able to apply on time. Obviously, lying isn't a good option either.

Just wondering if you nice people have any stories or knowledge that may help me decide how to handle this. Thanks!

EDIT: Advice and opinions are but appreciated but what I really want is solid information.
You might want to get in touch with Admissions to ask about if/how pending charges might hurt your chances. Give them as much or as little information as you're comfortable with. You could even contact them anonymously if you want.
I like the "Ask the office" advice, but I'd say that if they tell you that it could hurt your chances, you should not apply rather than lie.

If you lie, and they look into it through a routine background check, then you hurt your chances potentially in the long term - or, at least, you have to start jumping through a lot more hoops. Better to not apply, let it resolve, and apply to start in the winter semester or even next year. You're 25, what's the harm in one more semester? If it does resolve, you could spend that time auditing a class or two and develop a routine before it starts to actually count.

If you're honest, and they find out what your charges are, being honest and principled does you credit. It wasn't that long ago that we called it Grass Valley; if a weed charge looks bad to them then _they've lost their soul, man_.

I once was on the outs with GVSU. They gave me a second chance and I did well and graduated; there's good people there. Be honest, my thinking is you'll be fine.
you can not take any financial aid if you are convicted of any drug related charges.
Lying should never be an option. You should know this by now, especially at 25. You've seen first hand where lying has gotten you now.

Be a (wo)man and tell the truth, if it doesn't work out the way you wanted it to, at least you will know you did the right thing. Mark yes. You did the crime and should be held responsible for what arises from it.
if you have a medical card you can escape this charge.
Just lie

I look at job applications all the time and as soon as I see someone has checked the box regarding past felony convictions, it raises a red flag. I would wager that no one checks criminal backgrounds for the thousand of applications they receive. It's more likely that they are looking for people to voluntarily filter themselves out.
That is good advice, thank you.
Thank you very much, buddy. This is the type of answer I was looking for.
I hear you and I get that. I'm looking to evaluate real-world experiences though. People lie at other schools and it works out fine. I'm not saying that's the way I want to go, but I do want all the information available to me. I've looked around and seen lawyers advise varying courses of action depending on circumstances. So that's where I'm coming from.

Also, there's a difference between committing a crime and being charged. You don't know anything about me or my situation, so a generic "do the right thing, see where it got you" lecture isn't helpful. It's frankly condescending. I'm not a POS liar who keeps digging myself a deeper hole. Like I said, this is a question people post on legal boards and get a full spectrum of answers.
This is the worst advice one can give.
HAHA, since when is responsibility a high horse? It's called being a human. You get in trouble, then to try and get out of it, you lie again which causes you get get deepen in trouble, you really think the best thing to do it lie again? I feel bad for your parents because they obviously didn't raise you right.
It's the opposite of your advice, so it's obviously the worst possible choice, right?
Dude, you are being kind of a dick. If OP decides to lie,, couldn't (s)he just apply again once the matter is resolved? One option was waiting until it's over although OP was afraid of the timing. It'd be the same thing. IDK if they blacklist you or something, but if not, it's a "what do you have to lose?" option.

I wouldn't recommend lying, but you're being a giant douchebag about it.

OP, along the lines of "what do you have to lose" I'd say just be open about it and apply again if it doesn't work out. I say don't lie, but it wouldn't be as bad as this person is suggesting.
No, believe it or not there have been many instances where I'm wrong, and I would be the first to admit it. In this case, I'm not. Intentionally lying about felonies (in regards to your post only, not the OP) is stupid and could cause a plethora of issues. Again, I'll repeat, intentionally lying is wrong and should not be the go to answer.
That's why I'm asking. I don't want to waste the $100 ordering my SAT, ACT, and transcripts if it's just a shot in the dark. Should I lose my job over these charges, that $100 thrown away would be a big deal.

Like I said, nobody knows my situation so I'm looking for actual experiences to see how things work. Idk if there is a black list either, so that's the type of stuff I want to find out.

You all are too caught up on lying. I just want information.
Your* grammar could also use some improvement.
As a nearly 30yr old person, you should know that the real world doesn't baby people, especially those who are 25. The OP did wrong, lied, got in more trouble and now wants to lie again to try and conceal truths. You want someone (us) to lie to this person so they make the wrong decision?
I'm pretty into longboarding but I haven't met too many people that actually do it, pm me if you want to go boarding sometime!
Theres a brand new paved road really close to my house in west grand rapids. Its a mile long gradual hill. No rocks, bumps, nothing. Just brand new asphalt. 
It goes from Bridge Street and Covell intersection (There's a 50 bus stop there!) to Bridge street and Mt. Mercy Dr. NW, to Valley Ave. Its the best route i've ever ridden. Traffic is minimal as well. It can get a little speedy sometimes, though.
Only longboarders I see on campus are those mongo pushing flip flop wearing ones
Yes. Come join the LBGT club (Long Board Get Together). Just look up GVSU lonboarding on Facebook.
Casual longborder here :) I've been skating for a couple years but never really got into the bombing hills shit. I've only ever really bombed a couple, i'm more into cruising and carving and stuff. I'd be working on more flatground tricks if i had a kicktail.
Yeah. I like to hit up the crew hill across the road from campus to slide. No traffic at all because it's basically a private drive owned by GVSU. I have a drop deck, a cruiser, a penny, and a skateboard so feel free to pm me if you'd like to cruise, slide, or whatever. 
Oh my, I thought I was the only one who noticed this trend.
That's a confusing title. Also, I'd like to get involved but dont have a facebook.
That is dangerously close to LGBT... I had to reread to make sure I was on the right thread. Sounds sweet!
Check out the loaded ceviche, small, great for cruising and tricks. Wouldn't bomb hills with it though.
I was on the rowing (crew) team at GV. You longboarders are annoying. 
How is it for sliding? I'm considering picking up some gloves and trying that out. I was looking at the cantellated tesseract, its got a nice little kicktail for ollies and stuff
Ok?
Honestly, I have no idea. I'm still learning how to slide. I wouldn't imagine it would do well though. The board is short, and kinda tall for its size.
Good talk
I'm going to GVSU in the fall as a freshman and I was wondering about longboarding? I won't have a car my first semester and I was wondering a couple things:

1. How many people longboard there?
2. Is it acceptable there? or do people get peeved off about it?
3. Is there a campus group of longboarders?

Thank all of you for the help! r/gvsu seems to be the most helpful subreddit around!
Yeah, there are TONS of longboarders here. It's definitely acceptable, there's not like a stereotype against longboarders, it's just a person by person judgment (ie: don't be a dick). 
I'm not a long-boarder, and know quite a few people who dislike long-boarders (myself included) - But don't let others opinions stop you from doing what you want to do. There's nothing inherently wrong with it as long as you're courteous.  
Hey there,  there is a group that long boards (at least there was one last year) , check them out at the campus life night.  They usually meet up for some skating and either head out around campus or go to some hills in the area. They also go to a parking garage downtown often. I went a couple times and they were pretty cool. 

Definitely bring it.  It's fun to skate around campus during free time.
Actually there is a longboard club here! 
http://www.facebook.com/groups/112615362130784/?fref=ts
ALSO: do people ride them to class? if so, do they bring them into class with them or lock them up outside or something?
How did this get downvotes? It was a question. who the fuck would downvote a question?
Thanks!
Oh my god almost every longboarder I've seen on campus acts like such an ass. I can't stand 'em. They're all over the sidewalk, barely dodging people... it's terrible.
I'm a loaded fanboy, I'm not ashamed though, they make great boards, I've got the Ceviche and the dervish sama. You?
Also, the school is relatively flat,  but there are some small inclines.  But those get really crowded during passing time so I take the long and less traveled routes to class. Just be curtious to pedestrians and nobody really cares 
Judging by the comments it doesn't seem to be a very well-known group. Maybe just a facebook group? I don't have a facebook.
A lot of people dislike longboarders here because they don't use any courtesy. Most just fly around weaving through (and bumping into) people and don't care.
The was club founded this year I believe.
Well from the comments here I've decided to bring mine, but I'll try my best to stay out of the way!
It's there, there's also one in Grand Rapids that rides together. In the past there has been a fee races. A dash and an endurance one that was at millenium park. I'm pretty sure the group at school is still around. Just check the activity of the Facebook group.
I actually found it my freshman year (i'm now a junior) on the schools organization website link.  They were a pretty big group when i skated with them freshman year.  I haven't been able to do anything with them since however because of school but i know that they all loved to skate and it was a pretty cool group.  You should check them out if you can.

Cool! Thank you!
Yeah, I'm sorry, I'll try to be courteous.
Just stick to the "don't be a dick" rule and you should be ok.
Awesome! I was also looking at getting one of those but it seems incredibly similar to the Dervish Sama.
Again, I don't have a FB.
Ha, no need to be sorry for others' actions. Just don't be like them.
Will do. Thanks!
Yeah, The dorms. the cheap ones. lol hbu?
Oh, well if you decide to get into the dorms, hmu. you seem like a pretty chill roommate.
Cool man, sounds dope.
I think someone should aggregate a list of all the GVSU parody accounts... 

You're probably wondering why I don't do it myself. Well, I'm lazy
The MIP Library is pretty fitting for Grand Valley
there will be a 30 foot fireplace, I'll bring the bear rug. 
Pure gold!
Most of my friends go to different colleges and some of them tell me that GVSU students have a bad rep. One of them said she met the "skankiest of skanks" who went here and others kind of look down on me for going here. I wish I could argue against these points, but honestly most of the time I find myself agreeing that I don't really like my classmates. They tend to be rude, snobby, and think they are much smarter than they actually are (not that I'm ridiculously smart by any means, but they can be condescending). I hate group projects because of this.

I just found this subreddit and looked at the facebook confessions page and it didn't make me feel much better. I was wondering if anyone ever feels the same way? Or if not, I could use some reassurance. I'm a history major and anthro minor so maybe it's just the field I'm in or something...
Everything you mentioned could also be said of other colleges.  There will be sluts, snobs, and douches at every school.  This isn't exclusive to GVSU.
Never. Our school is up and coming, the only people that tend to give me shit are my friends at MSU and UofM. But ever since my group of friends turned 21, when they visit me in Grand Rapids they defiantly sing another song. 
Yeah, I get that a lot to be honest. Fuck 'em. I came here looking to transfer ASAP, but I've decided to stay. There's good communities here, you just have to find them. The same can be said of professors, administrators, etc. 

Also, there's a 95% chance my student org is bringing in Neil DeGrasse Tyson this year, and he won't be going to MSU or UofM, or CMU or anything like that. So, eat a dick everyone else. 
The facebook confessions page is a crock of shit; it's generalities pandering in faux-satire and over the top bull shit. 
All schools in Michigan have some sort of stereotype associated with them, and we're no different. However, it's nothing to lose sleep over. 

The following are stereotypes associated with different Michigan universities that I've **heard** over the years: 

* University of Michigan = Asian/Smart 
* Michigan State University = Hicks/Dumb 
* GVSU = Snobby/Wealthy/White 
* WMU = Bros/Gross/Not smart enough for GVSU/UM  
* CMU = Jersey Shore/Drama/Not smart enough for GVSU/UM 

I'm not saying that I agree with the aforementioned stereotypes, but from my experiences, I'm not saying I disagree with all of them... 

You're going to run in to dumb classmates at any university. 

I'd rather have our widely-known stereotype than some of the stereotypes associated with the other universities... 

And no, I've never been embarrassed about matriculating here - In fact, I'm proud of it 
Absolutely not, I love Grand Valley. I have always felt that it positively defined who I am now. The relationships that I had with professors and alumni of my program while in undergrad were incredible. Don't let your friends get you down, GV is a great place. 
Back when I was at GV (grad in 2010) I remember being in a small group in a Comm class and the other 4 people were bragging about how they had MIPs. I remember thinking, "WTF, why are you proud of irresponsibility?"
Nope. Got my degree here in 2010. Recently, one of my neighbor's snotty little girls considered GVSU to be a person's "backup" school- when back when I attended, Central or Eastern were considered "backups". You can say that about any school- and honestly, the skankiest women I've known have always seemed to attend MSU or Central. 
As a Chip, yeah I would be embarassed. Nothing but fags and fuck faces at GVSU. But I have met some really sweet and nice girls there. And for the skankiest of the skanks thats Western. Fuck the broncos. Fire up Chips.
It is a money thing. I got the same shit when I was at gvsu 15 years ago. But I think my education was better. Smaller classes, profs you can actually talk to. Smaller campus. It is a great school.
I heard about that and I am pumped if we do get him.  Thanks for helping on that 
Are you guys teaming-up with the GR CFI, or is the GVSU CFI bringing him in alone? 

Very impressed. 

EDIT: I also heard what his speaking fee is...and still think he's worth it 
Prepare to be lurked.
Sorry you couldn't get into a better university.
I always joke that we're all going to be equally unemployed anyways but I'll have less debt.
I didn't explain the money thing: students often equate more expensive with better. That isn't the case.
Yeah that's one of the problems as well. A lot of people write off GVSU as cheap. :/
As an alum, this excites me and I hope it is open to all of us.
We've cosponsored, but he will be coming to GVSU itself only. 
Hey Matt. Likewise. 
Also a Chip, can confirm that I will be transferring here soon. CMU blows so much dick
No joke. I paid mine off. My friends who went to bigger schools haven't.
Events/speakers/etc... that the school pays for are open to everyone 
I just went and approved a bunch of posts... my bad everyone.

In the future, if you're not seeing your posts on the first 2 pages... send us a message. Chances are, your post was removed for some reason because haven't properly "trained" our subreddit's spam queue properly. 

Sorry for the suckiness.
Let us know what you think! 

[Survey](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfPXi65JstLkvG6X-AVAzfZ29rSNe0g8eaDQhyHAlPLG-qfuw/viewform?usp=sf_link)
Open debate about what between whom where?
Whats the point of this?
Aside from half these questions having next to nothing to do with debate at all, you’ve given no explanation as to why this was posted.
You should have really worded this far better dude. Open debate isn't a good term because there's 3 seperate styles inside open debate. Open just refers to the league status anyways, doesn't it? Like there's the newbie level and then open/varsity? 

Are you talking about competitive policy debate? If so you need a backing of coaches and professors and is the only decent form of debate anyways
Open debate as a general concept where you have any topic.
Looking for a sub-leaser for Hillcrest Townhouses it is on 48th avenue!!
List of amenities:
Bus stop that takes you right to campus!
Free Water!
Rent is 450 a month!
Can pay with financial aid!
3 nice female roommates. 
Biggest bedroom with walk in closet!
Only utilities are gas and electric. 
Free wifi, and parking!
Must be a female. 
Move in December 
Email me at ortizch@mail.gvsu.edu
So I don't have to go to Devos...
There's a computer lab on the 2nd floor, if you go up the main stairs, turn left. Go down that hallway and you'll find it on the right side after a couple of turns. Not sure if there are others. 
I won a water bottle!
ScholarWorks has some great stuff
Anyone on Twitter/Tumblr/other sites and want to share?

Me:

* [@mikerapin](http://www.twitter.com/mikerapin)
* [tumblr.mikerapin.com](http://tumblr.mikerapin.com)
* [Last.fm](http://www.last.fm/user/mikerapin)
* [Google+](https://plus.google.com/116096284333985476811)
You already have all of my things!!!
Who the hell are you!?
This really is a fun game. *leaps away*
why are we not allowed to go home?
To not spread the virus to your home?
Well we are allowed to go home, it just costs about $5 or so now.
if we get tested before we go why would in matter
wait what?
Because you could get sick at home and bring it back
thats about the cost of a 'pigs in a blanket' bumper sticker id imagine, just slap that baby on and peacefully protest your way back home.
so then get tested before you go back too. not that difficult
Results can take 2-3 days and the incubation period can be more than a week. Really not hard to grasp
False negatives are a thing
You think people are actually gonna do that
So I'm wondering about about the fridge size of the Laker Village Single Room efficiency apartment and how big the fridge is in the apartment and if I could use a mini fridge there as well.
I never stayed in LV so take my answer with a grain of salt...I lived in South E one year and we had a full-size refrigerator, my rough guess would be that LV has the same but I'm not sure. You should be able to call Housing and ask them. As for a mini, I believe housing policy asks that you do not bring one if your unit already has a full size in the kitchen. That being said, I don't think they strongly enforce that, if you really need some additional cold space.
With 600 cases and a student/faculty/staff population of around 30,000, that puts the total case rate around 2%. The case rate for Kent County (about 9200 cases and 656,000 residents) is about 1.5%. I think this might be a bit dramatic.

That being said, the tuition argument is completely valid in my opinion. Increasing tuition while your entire student body is receiving a fraction of the services/amenities at a fraction of the quality that could be reasonably expected by a student at GV is absurd.
Those demands are a bit outrageous! GIVE US A FULL REFUND AND A PLACE TO LIVE AND HEALTHCARE AND FOOD. wtf? how are they going to give you a refund AND housing, food and healthcare?? what do you think, that money grows on tress?
I cringed at
> Well 'Philly'
Yeah this is pretty ridiculous. If you don’t like what’s going on then don’t take classes this semester?
Excellent!! So proud of our students!!! We support you!!!
Well it was a freshman 🤦🤦🤦
to be fair, classes have been in session just shy of a month, while Kent has been recording their cases since March.
Completely agree. This "petition" is DOA.
Seriously, whoever wrote this just wants a bunch of free handouts. Since when is a University responsible for healthcare to students? Finding shelter for students not on campus? 

Petitions can be great and all but this one is ludicrous. Horribly written and sounds more like someone whining rather than asking for change. ffs they called for the presidents job!
With a $133,000,000 endowment it can’t be that ridiculous.
Agreed, they think they can just drain the endowment fund and call it good. Yeah that is not how this works, probably a freshman who is pissed they cant have a fun welcome week.
Either way you look at it it's not enough justification to pull the plug. It's perfectly reasonable to try to slow community spread through other means before dropping the nuclear option imo.
As we all know, endowments are stored in the cave under zumbridge hall. It is the sole responsibility of each president to guard this horde with their life. Mantella sleeps each night on this mountain of cash, spooning with her m249.

It will be hard fought, but if we work together we can retake the cave and all share in the spoils.
Yes. I also think there’s a pretty heavy amount of the university population fine with being in person, they’re just a lot less vocal about it.
Hi guys. I know Lakers are amazing and supportive, so I'm hoping you can help. My cousin Mike, a former Laker, has been nominated for a national contest for the NMEDA's Local Heroes contest to win his first wheelchair accessible vehicle. Mike studied computer science at GVSU and has been super involved with the InterVarsity Christian Fellowship.

Mike is 25 years old and was born with cerebral palsy. He is capable of driving his own vehicle, but requires one with accessibility features. He has faced many obstacles, financial and otherwise, trying to gain his independence. He is a former Grand Valley student (Go Lakers!) and now has the opportunity to become a computer programmer for a local GR company, but having reliable transportation would be a huge first step in making this dream a reality.

You can vote and read more about his story at his entrant profile here:

http://www.mobilityawarenessmonth.com/entrant/mike-knooihuisen-walker-mi/

You can vote daily, twice if you answer the daily trivia question correctly. If you want to take an extra step, share this post to your friends and family. Thank you for your support, Lakers! It means a lot!
Thanks everyone!

Let’s figure out a time and place and try to spread the word on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter. Masks required, and probably on the downtown campus. GVSU should NOT be resuming in-person classes. This is absolutely abhorrent.
If anyone is a freshmen go into the fb group page for them and go and convince people to take gap years because they won't get their full college experience and the school doesn't care about your safety, well being, providing a good experience, etc. Only care about their pr and not you and us the students. If we get a ton of people to drop their tuition and classes and housing then we will see real blowback and change from the school
Probably not the best idea, because even if we wear masks and distance we will probably all die.
How about masks not required, but alcohol is. You do understand that this is all just an arrogant pr move for them. If we make the school look bad then we will get what we want, or at least they will lose money and get hurt from us rebelling.
Lmaooo let’s be friends
Lmaooo let’s be friends
Even if we save just 1 life by not protesting its worth it.
I feel you but the administration is looking for any reason to push blame on students. If there is a protest, it needs to be by the books. Masks, outdoors, and social distanced as much as possible.
Go suck a dick dude. Nobody is going to fucking die you dumbass. Besides I want my room and board money refunded with me being able to definitely be able to take classes at home and with me still having a place to come back too next semester if we have irl classes then
What happens if the blame is pushed on the students because odds are that is what's going to happen anyways? Other then a oh we're disappointed in our students email or some shit what can they do? Hell what is a protest that is social distanced even going to do anyways? Do you really think that is what intimidates or scares them? The reason people protest is to intimidate or scare people to then force them to change to the will of the crowd. I promise you a timid protest isn't going to do shit. Anything less then pure pr destruction even if it means students gets blamed is the only way we can actually force their hand.
Exactly, no one is going to die. Thats why its perfectly fine to have in person classes with masks+distancing.

edit: in fact your reply is so perfect, anyone who doesnt suspect you are my second account is an idiot lmao
Class inside

Safe from virus outside
fuck you bitch I just want to save money from not having to live in allendale, or being able to workout
Its just a bit strange you believe no one is going to die, and yet you believe we should be 100% online because of covid. 

Also we are still within the room and board refund deadline btw, you can still cancel at no cost.

Not really sure what your argument is, you kind of just seem like a typical room temp IQ troll.
I need a place to stay for winter semester in case of irl classes then. I don't care about covid whatsoever. I care about getting my classes done and graduating this year, as well as saving money due to being able to safely getting refunded my room and board
Thanks for forcing the university to waste my tuition dollars on a stupid lawsuit, assholes. 
The 0.03 percent of campus is a dumb argument.

.03% of campus is a lot when you consider the empty space of campus as well as the foot traffic by kirkhof and au sable.

I wonder if the percentage takes all the undeveloped land owned by GV into account.
LOL, without the slightest hint of irony the university said in a statement: "Grand Valley State University embraces the First Amendment and encourages, supports and defends free speech."
When it comes to the case law and constitutional law involving the issue, it is clearly illegal for public universities to restrict free speech *anywhere* outdoors on campus, as long as students are not blocking doorways or being so loud that they're disrupting classes.

That was the precedent clearly set by numerous cases at universities like UNC Greensboro, West Virginia University, Texas Tech, and the University of Cincinnati. [Read this article for more information.](https://www.thefire.org/federal-court-university-of-cincinnati-free-speech-zone-violates-first-amendment-cannot-stand-3/)

Moreover, the fact that the faculty, campus administrators, etc. didn't enforce the rules equally - they allowed left-wing groups to demonstrate on campus outside of the Orwellian "free speech" zones while shutting down peaceful conservative or libertarian activists - *highlights the core of the issue*.

When you have unfair and unconstitutional rules like this set by a government entity (in this case a public university), the political establishment (in this case the university administrators) can choose to ignore the rules when causes they support break them. This clearly creates an environment where some causes can be discriminated against while others are allowed to do whatever they like on campus. Clearly, that's exactly what's happening at GVSU now, since the anti-Trump, pro-abortion, and BLM protesters were allowed to flagrantly violate campus policy without repercussion.

Now I want you to ask yourself - if the tables were flipped, and the GVSU administration allowed conservative and libertarian activists to hold demonstrations *anywhere* on campus while limiting left-wing activists to a tiny portion of campus, would you still be defending this illegal, unfair, and unconstitutional rules?
I just want to clarify that I definitely have a left wing bias and disagree with the group's message but I don't believe that disqualifies this opinion as I tried my hardest to keep it unbiased and it mainly focuses on the law and campus rules.

> the fact that the faculty, campus administrators, etc. didn't enforce the rules equally - they allowed left-wing groups to demonstrate on campus outside of the Orwellian "free speech" zones while shutting down peaceful conservative or libertarian activists - highlights the core of the issue.

> When you have unfair and unconstitutional rules like this set by a government entity (in this case a public university), the political establishment (in this case the university administrators) can choose to ignore the rules when causes they support break them. This clearly creates an environment where some causes can be discriminated against while others are allowed to do whatever they like on campus. Clearly, that's exactly what's happening at GVSU now, since the anti-Trump, pro-abortion, and BLM protesters were allowed to flagrantly violate campus policy without repercussion.

I said a few things along these lines in my earlier post, the article didn't show any example of leftwing groups being favored it just mentioned a Donald Trump protest. I'm under the impression that the Turning Point group is not protesting but is instead trying to recruit/spread their message. Groups attempting to do this must remain in certain zones where as the left wing protest i've seen have been protests that (I'm assuming made plans with the university) are marching around campus.

I think the distinction the University is making is between a protest/march and an organization trying to recruit people. The article wasn't very clear and I was only responding to that source so if someone has links to more information that could prove that this isn't the case I would appreciate it. If the Turning Point group asked to march/protest on campus and were refused I would definitely see them winning a case, unless the university had a legitimate concern. 


**this is from the article linked to in the comment above**

> Prior to today’s court order, UC had required all “demonstrations, pickets, and rallies” to be held in a “Free Speech Area” that comprises just 0.1% of the university’s 137-acre West Campus. University policy further required that all expressive activity in the free speech zone be registered with the university a full ten working days in advance, threatening that “[a]nyone violating this policy may be charged with trespassing.”

UC's "Free Speech Area" applied to protesters, not people recruiting for their organization. This is different from GV's Free Speech Area as it prevents recruitment by greek life, clubs, sports teams, churches, political groups, etc. all over campus and confines it to specific areas that receive a high volume of student traffic. It is not confining protesters which would violate the law in my opinion. 

> ask yourself - if the tables were flipped, and the GVSU administration allowed conservative and libertarian activists to hold demonstrations anywhere on campus while limiting left-wing activists to a tiny portion of campus, would you still be defending this illegal, unfair, and unconstitutional rules

I don't believe the groups were being discriminated based on political ideology and I also don't believe that the rules are illegal, unfair and unconstitutional. If this article could show that the university cared about the political ideologies of the groups then I would be all for the lawsuit and be on the side of Turning Point. 
Also I want to make it 100% clear that, even though I'm on the left, that my political views aren't influencing my view on this lawsuit it's simply argued from the perspective of what the rules actually are and if those rules are unfair. 
Less than $200?
Don’t use crytal clean they don’t do a good job
Some friends of mine told me about this "protest" so, naturally I tagged along to check it out just for the heck of it. We got there about ten minutes before the crowd came, so we got front row in front of the camera.....Now I am in a video of this huge "story," that escalated quickly to national news. I don't know if I like that much attention.  I just hope they re-install the ball because of how fast this has escalated.
Sometimes I'm embarrassed to be a student here.
I think we should all meet and play games again. Any one up for a hangout night?
http://www.woodtv.com/dpp/sports/GVSU-to-Cuba-for-baseball-med-supplies
Let me know if you find anything broken with it, or have any suggestions.

Edit: Also, let me know if you like it, of course! I'm hoping more and more people will actually use it, as it could turn into a very powerful software that I could market to climbing gyms.
This is great as a new member of Vertical Earth I can't wait to use this!
This is a great idea that would be far better suited as a smartphone app. There are a ton of routes up and it would e difficult to remeber all of the data without writing it down if you climb for 4-5 hours as I used to. 

Also, it's pretty amazing how much has changed at the climbing center. I used to set routes for comps there along with a few friends  I don't recognize a single name on that list whereas 6 or 7 years ago I would have known everyone on it. 
Yeah, I'm working on a mobile version of it. Glad to hear some positive feedback!

The setting here currently is, well, unique. Very hit or miss. I'd like to think that I'm a decent setter, haha.
Mobile version is complete. It should automatically redirect you if you're using a smartphone.
Looks good!
So there are tons of bigger and cheaper universities in Michigan, so why would a student come to GVSU? Why did you? Serious question - I did several <university> is best known for what searches and GVSU doesn't seem to be known for, well, anything. So why should I come here?

edit: I'm actually quite interested in GVSU, the comments by DerzKing, Code_Moo, and GoldenJ make it sound like it's a great place to learn without feeling like a faceless number. Thanks for the great feedback!
Don't. Clearly you don't want to and if all you're concerned about is what list GVSU is ranked highest on, you're going to miss out on those small things that make GV special. 
I'm a prof. I have never seen a public university with these kind of resources this dedicated to teaching and to undergraduates. There are other great choices, I'm an MSU grad, but we're unique. The profs at most schools are about the research, and it can be unusual to find one dedicated to teaching. Profs here are scholars, but often working on UG accessible research, and everyone is committed to teaching. It's like Williams or Benoit with the resources of 20K+ students.
What helped me make my choice was that Grand Valley is mostly undergraduate only. So, as a chemistry major this meant I didn’t have to compete with graduate students for research projects and professors here have more of an emphasis on teaching rather than getting that next grant for their research. Other reasons are the fact that it’s a moderately small school where I can see someone if I want to, but it’s also big enough to where I can blend in with the crowd. It’s also beautiful! Compared to many other university campuses it’s very clean and well put together. 
Alumni of the biomedical sciences program here. 

Campus: Of all the university campuses I've been on in the state, GVSU's had by far the nicest campus with the most modern, updated buildings. I live in Ann Arbor and constantly hear my friends complain about the old, run-down dorms/ classrooms at UM. But being 15 mins from the beach and 15 mins from GR is very nice as well.

Curriculum: I basically had no gen eds to take and there are fewer required useless classes compared to other schools. There were lots of options for upper level courses not offered at other universities, like cadaver dissections, which is extremely rare for any university to offer this to undergrads. 

Class size: An underrated feature. My friends at places like UM or MSU complain constantly about their huge science lectures with 200-400 students. They also have to deal with GSIs and TAs doing a lot of the discussions/grading/office hours. Although GVSU is the 3rd largest school in the state, I often had science lectures of 20-40 people, the largest class being about 100. These were taught exclusively by qualified professors, along with the discussion section, and the professors were very available in office hours. I may have gotten lucky with profs though.
Tons bigger? Only Michigan State, Michigan, Wayne State, and possibly Central Michigan are bigger. 
West Michigan is an amazing area. I feel like I am getting a really good quality of education here. The facilities are modern and clean, and I feel like a lot of the professors truly give a damn about their students
Was waitlisted at Michigan tbh... 
If you want a job out of the Midwest, don't go here because in my experiences it has been really hard. Finally landed an IT position in Texas though so it is possible. U of M and MSU open a shit ton more doors in that regard.
I'm a transfer student, so I don't have the same experience as others do. I can tell you though, GVSU advisors are so much better than the ones at the community college I went to. People here are abit aloof, but nice, something that GR tends to do, in my experience. The classes are good, I don't think I've had one with more than 40 students yet. The professors seem more invested in the students than at other schools my friends go to.


The best institution for you is the one that best fits YOUR needs and aspirations.  Choosing schools based on these standards your given is extremely foolish.  A community college could be the best thing for someone, while Harvard could be the absolute worst thing for them.
Jesus. Why don't you list the "small things that make GV special." This subreddit is full of douchebags. I wouldn't have attended GV if I read shit this. 
The only truth in this thread lol. Same bro.
What most don't realize is GVSU is a teaching institution rather than a research institution.  Research is done here, but that is not the main focus for faculty.  Meaning, if you want to be a faculty member at GVSU, you are coming here to TEACH.  Being an aloof professor who does the walking zombie in pajamas routing through their teaching role are not going to last long here (unless you have tenure).
We don't work for admissions. Look at OP's post...they don't want to attend or aren't convinced they want to attend. GV wasn't my first undergrad school and I didn't want to attend at first either but I spoke with the right person in admissions who helped convince me that GV was the best fit for me and I have loved the school since. If truth makes me sound douchey, so be it. Why don't you list the things that made GV special for you?
Pretty minimal list to be completely honest. 
NULL
If you think for a second you wouldn't get it with your stats, then you're not as smart as your GPA suggests.
Bro, your guaranteed to get accepted 
Pretty slim. I hear that you have to have a 4.2 and a medal of honor and at least be nominated for a nobel prize to have a shot.
I got auto accepted with a 3.6 and a 30 ACT, and then applied and was accepted to the Honors College so you are a lock for both, to be honest.
Dude get your ass to Michigan
Pretty much guaranteed to both the University and the honors college if you're interested in it.
If you are going to apply, you should also apply for the honors college as well. Totally worth it and the dorms are amazing. 
As everybody else has stated you are all but guaranteed to be accepted. And as much as I loved my 5 years at GV I would definitely still recommend that you apply to many universities in order to have as many options as possible.
Yeah you're pretty much guaranteed in. I had around your stats and quickly did their application in late December and barely put any effort into it and got accepted a couple days later and got honors college/scholarship offers. 
Yeah may as well move into a dorm now.
You'll get in and should be able to score scholarships especially if you apply for the honors college
Where else are you applying?
Republicans can also vote in the Republican primary ....
Registered as a MI resident and voter on February 9th... Fuck.
That sucks and I'm sorry to hear. Do you know if your friends and family are registered in the state?
Moved from Illinois, but they all know when they're date is
Pry not
Why is our tuition increasing when the university is clearly generating more than enough money already? I mean, the answer is clear but it’s frustrating that everyone just shrugs it off and accepts that as the way things are especially since this is a public university. American universities don’t have nearly enough checks to keep costs reasonable and its really disheartening that it doesn’t seem like things will change anytime soon.
Absolutely not. Also, she sucks.
I believe you're mistaken. Her salary is 480k according to [published salary information](https://www.gvsu.edu/cms4/asset/8D86E681-E631-FDD9-C965A207536EA137/section_245_-_website.pdf) (page 16). According to the [release today](https://www.gvsu.edu/gvnext/2020/gvsu-boosts-financial-aid-by-13-plans-for-11591.htm), she has pledged 10% (48k) for student aid and the deans have pledged 5%.
No. Her salary is $480k, that’s not 10%.
Why does she suck?
Do you know if that is themselves personally pledging a percentage of their salary? I personally believe that nobody is under any obligation to give away their money. but youd think that someone who is the president of a very liberal university & makes a disgusting amount of money would publicly do so to help students during something like this😂
Oh I read it wrong, that’s still crazy high
I only know what was in that release. It makes it sound that they’re all personally donating. Administrators taking paycuts the year seems to be the trendy thing at many schools. 

We could argue how much money the president and deans should be donating (and there are plenty of overpaid deans). But even if they all donated 100% of their salary, the overall impact is small. I’d much rather push for transparency in their reopening plan and judge the administration on its feasibility.
UMich’s is almost twice that.
You don’t like her because she wears makeup? Dumbass
It's going to be hard to live up to someone like T. Haas who left on such a good note, give her some time.

Nobody takes one look at you either and goes "oh this person must be dumb as rocks", you try to get to know them and give it some time.
Not saying the amounts are justifiable but it probably is justifiable that the President of UMich makes 2x that of GV. Running a major research university is a lot different than running a regional state school IMO
T. Haas also never had to deal with a pandemic. The university is working really hard not to cut any jobs right now too. So...it’s really hard to compare the two.
What was the obsession with T. Haas? I graduated and never got it
More of an appreciation I think because he made himself so easy to approach and personable. Whenever he was on campus you could wave at him, "get a selfie" if he had time and he wouldn't mind if he had time. He also did fun things like go to football games with his wife, they would almost always say hi to the marching band, etc.. Just an all around pretty good guy.
This is not the time to get 40+ emails from profs about what software to download and changes to the syllabus. Let people figure out what they are going to do for their work situations or who will watch their kids. The desire to maintain normalcy in the schedule in the face of something like this is insane.
I think that at least professors need to stop expecting to conduct "live online" classes. Just post video lectures and have assignments turned in through BlackBoard. Stop with all the extra nonsense.
I think they’re struggling as much as the students with everything..
I still haven't gotten any communication from one of my profs. Not even an acknowledgement that this is happening, much less what the class is doing
This is a difficult transition for everyone. Please allow your professors to work through this as best as they are able. The situation is not perfect. I know this isn't perfect but this is uncharted territory we are entering.
It's definitely not fair to the profs either. This is unprecedented and needs more preparation than 4 days
Absolutely no one is happy with this— not the teachers, not the students, not the administrators
To be honest if not now, when? Who knows how long we will be out so the sooner we get started the better.
Also, I really need something to do!
Professor here. That’s what I’m doing. The university is really pushing Blackboard Collaborate, but some students don’t even have Wifi at home and I’m not going to penalize them for it. I refuse to pretend that this is not a catastrophic change.  

As I see it, my job is 1) to give my students whatever sense of stability and normalcy I can, 2) to share whatever knowledge and feedback on the subject matter that I possibly can, and 3) hand out A’s like candy on Halloween. 

Let’s all just survive this and be ready to move forward in the fall.
Yep. I have one that went totally dark and two others that have sent me emails every hour about something changing or something I need to set up on my computer.
Bless your soul. I’m grateful we have some level headed professors around here.
Aight, you seem like a pretty cool guy, please tell me what classes you teach so I can be in the presence of that mustache
I actually said this to my friend when I saw this at the connection a few days ago.
Doge?
No. Wow.
Such cup.
Much dissapoint.
Spoiler Alert!
These cups suck for putting liquor in. It seems to leak through so easy.
Not much money, actually.
http://imgur.com/l4xVoFG
I agree with tinydustball. I had a 3.63 before Fall 2020 semester. My semester of Fall 2020 was a 3.4, and I had a few professors were I had to teach myself the material. Why should I pay &13,000 out of my own money, not my parents, to teach myself. If that is the case, I could find a good educational page on the internet such as Khan Academy to learn business, math, accounting, economics, and pretty much any other degree that isn’t specialized like healthcare. Heck you can even learn engineering w/o going to college.
The percentage of students that are shitty is likely equal to the percentage of profs that are shitty. Big surprise. It's all luck, and I think the majority of us are aware that a college education (for about half of students pursuing a degree) is a scam; we're essentially paying big bucks out of pocket for a piece of paper that means nothing compared to work experience.
Wow, what a gross post. The condescension is reeking through this screen.
Dear people who think they’re smarter and better than other people: Fuck off 😊
Unless you're exceptional and can interview/network well, or someone gives you an opportunity, you really do want a degree to get your foot in the door for a STEM job. A lot of employers just ignore non degree holding applicants

But a lot of people do use the "zuckerburg" approach, in which you only go to class when absolutely essential and/or you calculate how much work you can skip on without losing credit in the class. These people have determined their time is better spent learning elsewhere but obviously still want the paper (at least until they hit it big lol).

I'm a cs alumnus and my time at gv was ultimately a waste aside from the paper which just tells my first employer that I'm not a complete goon.
GV needs to reconsider their P/F credit/no credit policy.  Many state universities offer the option to chose P/F AFTER final grades have been posted.  Not the second week into the semester.  Obviously many students GPA have dropped due to various levels of class instruction/organization and having to teach themselves the material.  

One university acknowledge this issue by stating “We understand that this semester has been enormously difficult, in your classes and in your personal lives. For many of you, the cumulative toll and anxiety has been amplified by concern about grades and GPA”. These universities have extend the P/F option for both Fall 20/Winter 21 semesters and allowing this decision to be made AFTER grades are posted. 

Maybe GV just wants more money from students who have to repeat classes to boost their GPA or extend their college education?
Took the words out of my mouth. This is disgusting. Whoever wrote this has serious issues that they should probably get checked out!
just wanna thank you both for giving me hope that my degree will serve its intended purpose, and for helping dispel the idea you dont need a degree for a decent job that won't kill your body.
I'm asking this for a writing project I'm doing, and I would like some people's opinions. This is the easiest way for me to " interview" people at the moment, so names would be helpful for quoting.
I don't really care but man week 9 hit and it's hard paying attention now
Tell em that SlingDong69 does not like online classes!
I’ve enjoyed that the shift to online learning has made it easier for me to be in school whilst working and partaking in other aspects of life, but I miss having face time with teachers, as well as the general environment of being in the classroom with peers.
I can confidently say i've only learned practical applicable material in 2 of my classes this semester, when i should be getting it from all of thw classes i am currently in. Lectures online are great for the most part. Labs online are a flippin joke
Thank you for the responsr
Thank you so much for your response
I took only online in the summer and it was fine but they were short semesters

This semester is getting tough starting this week for me if this is good info to know
It really does help
Still not the latest version :( 
It's a start. I'm content with 36.
Yet Java is still, what, like 15+ iterations behind? People have been coming up to us (IT) about Web software for their Orgo assignments not working becuase of this. Yet still no updates.
For real. Its 5 AM right now so I've given up hope for my 8 AM being canceled, but as a commuter (from Holland) this is the worst I've seen it outside
I have a strong feeling about tomorrow being a snow day / cold day because it'll hit -20/-30 windchill tonight
Classic GVSU. Class canceled 2pm+
Just a friendly reminder: no class is worth your life. Don't risk it if you don't feel it is safe on the roads. Email the prof and let them know, hell all the schools are closed in Holland. 

As an employer, I don't require my employees to show up when the city I live in has a snow day, it becomes optional.
I apologize for the repost, I accidentally posted with live discussion.
Any parties going on this Saturday?
Hi GVPD
None that ik of officer
I'm not a cop lol, I'm moving to Copper beech Saturday and some friends are coming down with me and we're looking for something to do. You can add my snapchat in you don't believe me 😂😂 @Dykhuis21
I suggest you follow some of the gvsu Twitter accounts. There is more activity there and you can find where the parties are easier 
Hey guys, 

I'm looking to sell my two tickets to the LaughFest Bo Burnham performance. I can no longer make it. Tickets are for two seats on the upper balcony, about 4 rows back in the balcony. 

Asking price is $100.

Message or comment.
This isn't Craigslist 
I'm interested, how much were they originally?
Obvi Kid is obvi^
Yeah man, my single post is really cluttering up this very active subreddit. Chill out, it's a public forum. 
Already sold. Sorry dude. Are you cosmo from Milford? 
Nope, just a Seinfeld enthusiast. 
It was only a matter of time before big money started moving west. These people cant possibly be surprised.
Hi there!

Our good moderator [jkahrs595](http://www.reddit.com/r/jkahrs595) got to talking and one thing lead to another and now we have Advice Generators. 

"*What are Advice Generators?*" you may ask. Well, good GVSU redditor, they look like this:

[*Smokes cigarette within 25 feet of building***"I'm a rebel"**](/#freshman)

So! Basically, this is the beginning of us being able to be clever/funny with this subreddit.

Other possible future images/advice generators that I'm making up off of the top of my head:

* Louie the Laker
* T. Haas
* Scumbag department

If you have any suggestions and can provide images, send them my way.

Also: **This thread will be the go-to on how to create advice generators**

Current Generators:

[*College Freshman***College Freshman**](/#freshman)

    [*Top Text***Bottom Text***](/#freshman)

[*Senior Student***Senior Student**](/#senior)

    [*Top Text***Bottom Text***](/#senior)

[*Sheltered Freshman***Sheltered Freshman**](/#sheltered)

    [*Top Text***Bottom Text***](/#sheltered)

[*Lazy College Senior***Lazy College Senior**](/#lazysenior)

    [*Top Text***Bottom Text***](/#lazysenior)

[*Louie The Laker***Louie The Laker**](/#louie)

    [*Top Text***Bottom Text***](/#louie)
There shouldn't be a * in front of the first line
God I'm tired of that meme format.
Any particular reason why?
Okay, so I get that most of GV's expansion is a result of rich West sideofthestate private funding, but every time a new building is being put up in the name of GV it pumps me up. Maybe one day GVSU will be a name known widely around the country. It already has higher quality programs than a lot of schools, but unfortunately there's just no recognition behind the name.
I am so happy to be graduating out of this construction zone of a school. There has been no letting up in my time here, it's simply a ridiculous amount of 'progress' occurring.

To speak to /u/Fighter_spirit's point, it is my opinion that this recognition can only come after the halt to expansion of facilities. We, as a university, are showing no recognition of standards. What I am getting at here is that as the demand for universities increase there needs to be certain checks on university expansion. There can be no recognition developing when we admit more and more kids every year proving a lack, or compromising of standards.
The primary function of a public university is to serve its community 
Definitely can't argue with a general statement like that. My concerns lie in the methods of which we are currently serving this community. I am not well versed enough to call myself an expert in the dynamics which are at play here. What I do know is that current trends, and norms of this university's culture are not cohesive.
im a 21 F I'm going into my senior year at gvsu i live in meadows in allendale and as pathetic as it sounds i have no friends ive had friends come and go some transferred a lot got into relationships others moved down town and we got detached I'm not weird i party i smoke I'm really chill but i find it so hard to make friends at gv and it makes me hate it there everyone seems to have their set group of friends so its hard to fit in anywhere i haven't even been able to go out down town in gr since I've turned 21 bc i have no one to go with so if anyone is willing to hang out let me know
Gv is a hard place to meet people if you didn't get an in freshman year. 
I'll share the post with a couple friends of mine. I've graduated. 
I'm a junior transfer this year and don't know that many people. Let's be friends maybe?
I know a bit on how you feel (though a 26 m). I live off campus though on the east side of GR, but I am willing to meet new people. 
Hey I'm going there on the 24th hit me up on here for my number or email. I need friends as a transfer student lol
I'm not a student but I do live in the area (23/m). There are tons of things to do in the area, including a lot of non-gvsu groups. Do you have any hobbies or interests?

Otherwise feel free to shoot me a message if your specifically looking for people to hang out with.
Have you joined any clubs? Or even made your own? You can go to shows downtown at the Pyramid Scheme or Founders or something. That will get you out of the "daddy paid for my tuition" culture. 

I think it's just a matter of throwing yourself out there. If you see someone that looks interesting, introduce yourself. The worst that could happen is they won't be your friend, which the eact position you're in now. 
Awkwardly returning to the week old thread- sounds like we have quite a few Redditors.  You guys wanna meet Welcome Week at Mully's or something?
Talk to people.
I'm a senior living in 48 west. We will probably have a party or two welcome week that you could come to. Inbox me
I'd like to think that, considering you're a redditor, you'd fit right in with any of my friends (20 M).  And welcome week is gonna be a helluva time.  Inbox me
I mean we're all sophomores so probably a little young for you but we live in meadows too.
What is your major? I am a 24 Female senior in the Illustration program and I am always down to make new friends. I transferred to GVSU a few years a go, so I totally understand your situation. 
Im a senior and I just moved down town. Might even have some people over tonight if you wanted to stop by
this is how i feel exactly and i have a horrible story i went in blind and ended up with a girl from the sag nasty that was very under privileged and ended up not being able to afford school and leaving first semester and then i moved i with someone who didn't allow others in the room all the while being misplaced in the honor dorms i made no friends it was awful i just want to have friends for my senior year 
yes lets!
that you for the words of encouragement I'm deff going to try my hardest this year to put myself out there and i hope everything works out for the best i just turned 21 so I'm excited to hit the down town area but i wouldn't want to go out alone clubs is a good point i think i should really try
I think this is the best way to do it. Just introduce yourself. It is hard for some people to get over that social anxiety, but I feel like there is plenty of opportunities on and off campus to meet people. 

I am a transfer student coming in this year so I am in the same boat. Feel free to message me and we can exchange snaps or emails or something. 
omg this should happen!
why not?!
im majoring in exercise science. and thats really cool i have a lot of friends that go to school for graphic design and stuff we deff need to meet up id love to see ur art!
im not up there yet! I'm taking a class at oakland and it doesn't nd till the 25th so ill b up after that
Probably just related to living on campus. Most people meet their immediate "friend group" via the dorm building that they go into their first year.


Just easier to be "friends" with people that you're forced to be around, especially with how a lot of people have their doors open all day, compared to if you live in an apartment you're kind of limited in the amount of people you see everyday
Trade instagram or snapchat?

Same situation as this guy, welcome week we should chill. The more friends the better
I'm a junior who commutes from home but doesn't have many friends at school, can I get in here, too?
I'd still be down!  Anybody free?
Oh nice! Any particular career goals? 
And for sure! Do you have a facebook?
I would add that it depends on how much you put yourself out there. If you join any kind of campus club/organization that helps because it gets your foot in the door. A lot of the GV population, at least from my experience, finds their friend group and doesn't venture far from it.

I need a reason to go into Zumberge just so I can check out all the new stuff. 
Just go over and walk through some time. The transformation on the inside is incredible, especially if you remember what the old library was like. 
THIS. IS. GOLD. 

&#x200B;

thanks for the laugh my guy
Please can this just be a meme sub please please please
high effort lmao
This is basically the only good original content I've ever seen on this sub, so props.
What episode is the original?
Flawless meme execution
Glad you enjoyed it my dude
S2:ep2 “sexual harassment”
That’s making me very nostalgic as an alumni. Thank you.
Damn thunder woke me up before my alarm, but this beautiful video makes up for it!
good lord do i miss the Lakes area of campus. well, all of it really.
That’s sick! Good capture!!!!
Me too. I remember the first weekend I was there as a freshman, roaming around drunk at night and we all posed on that statue.
Thanks for the laugh I needed that lmao
Wow this is gold, top tier shitpost
My good man you have captured the zeitgeist splendidly!
So beautiful
If there isn't a skate park on campus in 5 yesrs mantella is a poser.
I appreciate the comment, but I can't take credit for this. This was the work of z_onca on Instagram. So you should tell him yourself! 😊
I love how this sub has turned from a “hey how is this class?” To a “FUCK GRAND VALLEY I FUCKING HATE IT HERE.”

You know what they say—no one hates grand valley more than grand valley students
Bruh there were people making posts about where they're aloud to park and how to work at kleiner

Im the one who suggested the idea to the mods and it immidietly freed up the front page for news and stuff.

The freshman questions are just so annoying to clutter up the sub and the thread worked, just like it works in other small subs like GR, Michigan, etc
This made my day. Bravo!
i like grand valley. cool campus, good teachers for the most part.

management? not so much
the front page doesnt need to be freed up. this is a small sub with a small amount of posts, and that megathread is gone now, so it couldn't have been too effective. i very much couldnt care less if freshman ask questions and i cant believe its that hard for you to scroll past one or two a day.
I feel like there's more than enough and it empirically makes subs more palatable. Take a look at what r/grandrapids has been doing since lockdown, frees up the entire front page for news, art, photos, shit posts, and memes

I know this sub is small but it's always growing. It keeps getting bigger and I prefer an organized sub. Can't believe people are genuinely upset at the idea of a megathread that detracts from nothing

If r/psychologystudents can have megathreads I have no idea why we wouldn't
With so many colleges immediately switching online after moving kids in, I expect nothing less from GV to follow the exact same path and shift blame when the inevitable happens.
Completely agree, wish I could upvote twice. Your username is very fitting.
But will they refund us is the real question
I’ve been somewhat removed from GV’s responses during this difficult time, but the things I’ve heard have not been comforting. Does anyone feel this reflects the new president?
If Grand Valley wanted to be responsible, they would move online by the end of the week. We don't need thousands of students coming to campus and potentially bringing the virus home with them when Grand Valley forces them the move out.
seriously, it's almost impossible to *not* notice the pattern happening with colleges, GV is just going to end up looking either stupid or unbelievably callous opening up campus when every other colleges' openings ended in bursts of covid and shutting everything down. i honestly don't get what they think will happen media-wise when it goes down here, it isn't a good look at all.
Now when they try to pull this "magic plan" again for next semester will students fall for the same or will they finally accept that online is the only safe way to go until there is a vaccine?  Ignoring the truth will keep GV solvent but can you afford such ignorance?
People can be selfish, stupid, or a combination of both. You not only have people who refuse to wear a mask, but you have people partying off campus already like the pandemic isn't happening. 

I've been concerned about off-campus partygoers and on-campus students going to those parties coming back and spreading the virus, til its too late to stop it. As such, I've said since June that we wouldn't be on campus longer than a month. 

However based on recent school openings at the high school level and the recent decisions by Notre Dame and MSU, I expect one of 2 things will happen:

A) By Sunday, GVSU announces that all classes will be remote and that students should stay home like in  March/April. 

B) GVSU begins move-in and by the end of the first week of class, a mass-move out will occur and we will go remote. 

It's not a matter of if, it's when. We WILL be going remote. Admittedly faster than I anticipated but I guess I've underestimated quickly things will get far, far worse. 

But hey, GVSU is used to bleeding its students' pockets already so we really shouldn't be surprised.
I’m so excited NOT to donate to this school as an alumni.
For sure not on tuition. But I’m positive they will do everything to keep kids on campus, even though they’ll be trapped in the dorms.
Hahaha, that's a funny joke
if they don't then we go full on blm riot on the campus and tear down and destroy the whole campus
I absolutely do. That is not to say a different or even the last president (Haas) would’ve handled anything perfectly, but she has been an exceptionally poor communicator, been evasive in providing rationales for decisions, evaded the whole debate over tuition increases, and seemed to focus on those stupid videos instead of having honest discussions.
I even reached out to the president and got forwarded to a board of trustee who gave me a half assed explanation about the tuition raise, basically saying there’s more financial aid available. Which is not true for a lot of students like myself.
It's funny because the students who are already here are forced to stay because of the housing contract. I'm in a particular bad situation because I don't have anywhere else to go or a permanent residence. I think the best I can do is just stay in a hotel when the storm comes.
Sometimes it feels like an institution wants to be the first to “do it right” and instead of looking at the overwhelming evidence that shows in-person classes would be a disaster, they want to give their ingenious methods a try and are hoping for bragging rights.  Going back is going to be detrimental not only to the health and safety of everyone returning to campus, but also to the people students live with, be it their families, roommates, or otherwise.  This whole situation is absolutely ridiculous.
You should start a lawsuit against the school then maybe.
I will purposely definitely be going to parties just to get my room and board money refunded through them forcing everyone who won't be homeless to move out. Will also not ever be wearing a mask wherever and whenever I will not get bitched at by the school.
how many people usually do donate as alumni
Honestly I'd rather stay in the dorm I've paid for than get kicked off campus if we can't get refunds. I don't really have a place to return to.
I want them to refund us on the room and board. I will be unbelievably pissed if they don't do that and don't kick people out of the on campus dorms and apartments
Dude her videos fucking suck ass. I went and watched one because supposedly it was going to "answer" some of the questions I had but it was just was some fucking joke where she rambled about diversity and gv doing the best to keep people safe but answered almost nothing. All they've done lately is just buy a fuck ton of cameras for like literally everywhere on campus. Like seriously there are cameras literally everywhere on all parts of campus now, and it's kind of creepy like gv is now 1984 now. Overall I definitely think Mantella is fucking terrible and should be replaced. I say we just have an open rager on campus to protest her stupid shit where everyone just wears masks and sunglasses so as to not be identified. With opened bottles of alcohol everywhere. We need to really embarrass this bad school.
Agreed. I’ve heard she has no interest in discussion. It’s as if it’s her way or the highway. If true, that’s very unbecoming and can’t help but wonder if it could be handled better with some influence from the inner circle.
Yea I looked into the expanded hardship awards and I’m not even eligible. And I wouldn’t call my financial situation great.
Tuition was already insane... Seems backwards to raise tuition to help people pay for tuition??
We don't need a lawsuit. We just need to use common sense. COVID will end. The trick is to take the long view and do the right thing now. Go online until there is a vaccine. Permanent heart and lung disease is a very real possibility for faculty, staff and students if they get COVID.. Not to mention death. Who is going to pay for these medical costs?  Long after COVID has passed people will still be struggling with the physical ramifications of the virus. Just stay home.
You'd be quite surprised about how many people donate as an alumni!
That would make some people homeless bro
Yeah, overall I like gvsu and it’s a good value. However the lack of communication has been frustrating and the tuition raise is head scratching. Pretty much every public institution in America has frozen tuition recently.
that's what she said
well that fucking sucks tbh if it's a lot of people
odds are the school would let those people stay but let everyone who can move out to then move out and get housing refunds
that would be insane if we did but one thing we might need to do to keep people from getting in trouble is for people to wear sunglasses and I guess for them to also unironically wear masks too so your identity wouldn't be found since there are hella cameras on campus now since covid started. They installed cameras next to like almost every single door and every single entrance on campus now. I think the best case scenario that is the most realistic is to get as many people as possible to go to apt parties and have as many off campus apartment parties around grand valley as possible. We need to get a ton of freshmen to go too
Hello you fucking bot. 

 My fucking name is ShitPissCum1312 and I am a fucking bot made by some motherfucker who was really fucking annoyed by your fucking comments with a fucking purpose of fucking telling you to shut the fuck up. What the fuck are you even fucking trying to fucking achieve by fucking doing this fucking shit over and over? No fucking one is going to stop fucking saying fuck just because you fucking told them to. 

 Fuck you all and have a nice fucking day. Fuck.
For the most part donations are going towards stuff like the Replenish Food Pantry, Textbook fund, Support fund, etc. My issue is the university isn't making any of these resources known
What’s crazy is that most of those students who would need to be refunded loaned out that money. 5 years ago during my undergrad, you didn’t get to pay anything back on the loan till the account got set up after graduation. It’s not a simple refund process for sure
gv should do what msu is doing right now
Thank you SNS for the support. I just speak on these issues how I'm literally thinking about them. The day of reckoning for this universities sins IS TODAY AND NOW AND THEY WILL FEEL MY WRATH AND MY CHAOS THAT I WILL BRING. There is no settling down at this point. There is only room for carnage and warfare against any attempt of reasonably not bad pr this university will try to have despite being a dumpster fire. I hope more people who maybe aren't as bold as me to speak out like this join my creed and together we use our cumulative wisdom and intelligence to make this school look as bad and to lose as much money and prestige as possible. - Skaters\_Rebel
Test
That's nice and all but I would wish they would directly use the money just for lowering the amounts people owe to the school through higher grants for all students.
Hi u/Skaters_Rebel and thanks for fucking replying to my fucking comment. I am a fucking bot so I have no fucking idea what the fuck I am supposed to fucking do but my fucking owner might fucking see this fucking comment so he should fucking know what the fuck he is supposed to do, so thanks anyway. 

Fuck you all and have a nice fucking day. Fuck.
Hi u/FecesUrineSpermACAB and thanks for fucking replying to my fucking comment. I am a fucking bot so I have no fucking idea what the fuck I am supposed to fucking do but my fucking owner might fucking see this fucking comment so he should fucking know what the fuck he is supposed to do, so thanks anyway. 

Fuck you all and have a nice fucking day. Fuck.
Test
Hi u/FecesUrineSpermACAB and thanks for fucking replying to my fucking comment. I am a fucking bot so I have no fucking idea what the fuck I am supposed to fucking do but my fucking owner might fucking see this fucking comment so he should fucking know what the fuck he is supposed to do, so thanks anyway. 

Fuck you all and have a nice fucking day. Fuck.
Parking passes are $450 now? Wtf GV... They really need to find a way around the allendale township not allowing parking garages. Are they just going to build more giant ugly lots?
If everyone was allowed to bring a car no questions asked, you'd have 2-3x the amount of parking required plus the need to handle that traffic. No thanks.
Wow that’s still going on?  I thought they would’ve changed that or something by now.   That was an issue when I went there too.  Smh.
Obviously you cannot park in the wrong lot....
No they’ll just keep raising the prices to thin the herd. It really impacts us who need to bring our cars because we have no other way home.
Id rather them work on scaling up parking facilities and road traffic solutions instead of just changing an arm and a leg. Id be different if the additional charge was going towards making improvements to parking/roads. Its not like the cost of maintaining a parking spot is sky rocketing. Demand is just thought the roof. They need to start working on increasing supply with the extra money they make from demand.

Its an infrastructure  problem thats built into the campus. Theres literally only two roads north/south and 3 exits, that has to change at some point, traffic is already at maximum during class already so that should take priority and once thats handled increase parking. Rates for parking should cover all the road maintenance and parking enforcement. It shouldn't be arbitrarily raised to limit poor peoples access to spots or cushion other departments pockets.
Right? At least when I went to GV, most colleges wouldn't even let freshman/sophomores bring cars to campus at all. I was excited just to be able to have the option!
I spent my senior year parking in staff lots for my allendale classes. Buy an alum license plate frame and throw a random piece of paper on your dash. Worked like a charm for me lol
I mean we get the j lot pass which is way cheaper but tbh j lot should be free since it's literally just a bus stop
After college, that's like a month of parking in a garage. Actually, way cheaper in some places. In some places they sell parking spots for almost a half a million bucks. 

Parking sucks. $450 for a semester is still very relatively cheap. Remember that real estate of any kind costs money because it's a limited resource.
People don’t actually like to look at the logical part. Instead they just want to accuse us of complaining or tell us if we don’t like it go somewhere else.
This is all amazingly useful real world experience. Your feeling about this will not go away! I know it's probably a very strong knee jerk anger because it may be your first time experience this kind of sticker shock but:

College fees are not an "experience" and thinking that way is wrong headed

Pricing for physical space is always ridiculous and always goes up. Prices don't go down unless there's a crash 

Location, demand, function, availability, and more go into price points, and comparing differences in housing and parking is pointless because it's an apples to oranges comparison. 

I get it's weird, and it feels like injustice, but it's perfectly normal and something to get used to in life so it's great practice! For example I just learned daycare where I live, which is necessary when working in office is required again, costs $1800 a month! And if you're late by 5 minutes for pickup it's $100 charge. Same with early. Prices suck, seem to make no sense, but it's often just stuff the average person doesn't understand, it just "feels wrong".
If all the businesses in an area close, all the people there have their property value drop drastically and they lose equity, which maps directly to net worth, so that's a particularly bad example.
No, the apartments close down and you lose your home in some cases! And sometimes rent does go up as the tenants drop, because the apartment building still costs the same regardless of how many people live there.
Oh damn, I’ve had emotional breakdowns on that very stone bench! :D
There's some absolute LUNKERS in that pond, I've always wanted to throw a line in
ok but what the fuck is that audio??

nice catch though, i always wondered if it was inhabited  when i passed by to get to kirkoff
This is a little trashy ngl
You could also just go to the tables by zumberge and look down, this seems like way too much effort :P
Same but who hasn't though? I walk by at night I see someone over there and I just think good luck bud.
my friend, that is a tik tok sound bit. lol
yeah i kinda guessed! i just want to know where it came from, it's so completely... non-musical. nothing about it sounds pleasant! it's wild.
So I was selected to be randomly tested, and I wanted to share my experience with you all. Below, I pasted the email I just sent out to the president and the virus action team. **At this point, if you are selected to be randomly tested, I would refuse.** The way the program is set up is just not safe. 


“Hello, 

I was randomly selected to be tested for COVID-19 early last week, and I scheduled my appointment for Wednesday, September 2nd at 11:15 a.m.

I arrived at the fieldhouse at 11:00 a.m. and was screened at the door. I was directed to an extraordinarily long line down the stairs. In the queue, not a single person was an adequate distance apart. A student worker was hurriedly trying to place tape X marks on the floor at proper social distance, but in doing so was shifting the line so students came into even closer contact with one another. 

I waited in the testing line for a prolonged period (half an hour, by this time it was 11:30). To enter into the basketball courts where tests were being conducted, I had to open a door - the handle on the door was clearly not being sanitized, and had been touched by what I'm sure was hundreds of people both before and after me. 

After entering the gym, I had to wait in another line, where again, no one was adequately social distancing. I waited for about 10 minutes (by this time it was 11:40, ten minutes after my appointment should have been completed). When I arrived at the front of the line, the Spectrum screeners were in a line formation facing the door, set up with computers. None of the Spectrum employees were socially distant. For obvious reasons, this is problematic, but doubly so because everyone in my vicinity could hear my address, telephone number, insurance, and other personal information. 

After my screening with the Spectrum employee (standing close to both them, the other workers, and everyone in the gym being tested) I had to walk through the line of computers (again, in close contact with everyone) to have my test administered. 

The test itself was rapid, but in all, my volunteering to participate in this randomized testing program cost me an hour of my time, as opposed to the estimated 15 minutes. More importantly, my participation in this program could have cost me my health, as I was more than likely exposed during a test which I volunteered to take. 

From my experience it is abundantly clear that Grand Valley State University is woefully underprepared to test such a high volume of students. I am deeply disappointed in the work of the Virus Action Team, but more so the administration as a whole.

This poorly cobbled-together "testing" protocol is shameful and I feel it is my duty as a student to express my disappointment, and urge the administration to make positive changes and improve the testing protocol. Even at the pleading of faculty members, the administration refused to move classes entirely online - you are obligated to keep this community safe, and you are doing a shameful job of it.”
God what a shitshow
Oh hey. I got tested last week. And let me tell you the fuckin hoops I had to jump through.

Yesterday: my idiocy, got an email from a rep from the Dean of Students, I skimmed over it and regurgitating details on what to do, look out for, blegh. I thought it was the usual "cover my ass because not enough info was out there" but LO AND BEHOLD third sentence in, "you should've been contacted by a nurse seeing regarding your test results"

Today: email from prof, "got a notice from the Dean of Students you were supposed to isolate and quarentine today, what gives?"

CUE RECORD SCRATCH

i hadn't received any info where to access my results and when I would get them, two calls later netted me a, "INCONCLUSIVE" result. Perfect. Three more calls netted me a, "we'll call you tomorrow with more details, maybe getting you another test"

So not only did I not know my results were in, I wasn't contacted in ways that I feel are more personal or professional. I had to find out the MyChart login from a spectrum rep. Come the fuck on.

Tldr; missed details on an email leads me to find out my inconclusive results leading to self isolation. Should be fun as fuck.
Don't hold your breath, i sent a well-worded email to housing about inconsistencies and negligence in the policies... 7 days ago.... no reply. Just shutup, obey, and pay that sweet sweet tuition.
Thanks for reporting.
This is exactly what I was worried about. Like wtf were they thinking cancelling all large events and then funneling hundreds of students into an enclosed indoor space.
That was pretty much my experience too. Except I managed to choose a time when the spectrum computer system had crashed, so there was a line out the door and people clumped on the stairs like passing time in Mackinac. I honestly felt like if I didn’t have covid before going to get tested, I would after. 

Not to mention a self administered test at the base of the nostril is NOT effective. Don’t see why the same healthcare professionals counting to 10 for you, can’t just do the swabbing themselves so it’s at least accurate.
Sounds Iike you paved the way for me. I went Wednesday at 2:15 pm and was there 35 min. The line kept spaced, but that’s because the tape was already on the floor by then.

The Spectrum reps were a little close for me and I didn’t like that I had to sign and couldn’t see the docs I was signing, but my PCP is a Spectrum doc so they didn’t have to take all my info, just confirmed name, DOB, phone, and email. 

Nobody told me how to get my results, although I had heard 24-72hrs and they’d be on MyChart, but I needed up emailing VAT because there were two different links to MyChart and one went to MetroHealth and one to Spectrum. 

I ended up getting my results about 48 hrs later, got an email and the results were in my Test Results on MyChart.
Can you refuse to comply? I was selected and my appointment is Thursday. I was under the impression that if you were selected it is mandatory but if I can refuse then I am certainly going to. I've done a lot to socially distance and I sure as hell am not gonna ruin that because my school doesn't know what the hell they are doing. They're gonna get a lot of people sick trying to make a show of ”preparedness”

Edit: I just reread the virus teams initial email, at the very bottom it says testing is voluntary. fuck this noise.
at this point, people need to be going above the president’s head with this kind of stuff. the email is so well written, but will more than likely fall on deaf ears. the way theyre handling this is a joke, and theyre putting so many people at risk.
Don't  worry. Our president  said GVSU is gonna be the exception! GVSU is gonna be a inspiration to other colleges in the country right?
Oh holy shit. It sounds like you already know this, but I want to reiterate that it is not your fault. The university fucked this up, not you. What does the future hold for your prof/classmates?
I don’t really expect to hear anything back, I guess this was more for me than anything else. Sometimes you have to take a break from shouting into the void and shout at the admin instead.
Only nurses can administer tests, and nurses are WAY more expensive then medical assistants. That’s why they are self-administered :/
I'm sure you know this, but for anyone reading this thread; please never sign a document you can't read. That's sketchy as hell, and if I'd been selected to have been tested, I would have walked out of the facility right then and there.
if you can, i would suggest going to a spectrum lab site. That is an option when you picked for random testing.  
I was in a lab this morning. Clean and fast. In and out, including check in and waiting, and getting fresh mask in like 15 minutes total.  
I have also been super cautious and distancing and I honestly feel a lot better after taking the test.
You can refuse!!!
This is a good idea. My brain just thought the buck stopped there for whatever reason. If I wanted to send this higher, where would I take it? Kent county public health?
Not sure at this point. I will take responsibility to the point of, "skimming over a potentially important email though it was not marked as super fucking urgent" but in all seriousness, I'm gonna self isolate until I can get a second test.
That’s not true at all. Any level of medical profession can EASILY be trained to administer a covid test with much less risk than a patient coming in and trying to shove the swab as far up their nose as possible.

Plus, my roommate went in to get tested through GV because she we symptomatic and they did the swab for her.... so clearly the people there are qualified to administer the test. I’m not sure why they can’t just swab everybody, since a true nasal/esophageal test actually takes less time than a self administered test.
Then sure as shit I'm not going. I'm not getting sick for their bullshit.
GVSU Board of Trustees?
mad media would probably be the most effective honestly. health department wont hurt tho! again, the email was SO well written and hopefully hearing the frustrations of their students will make change happen, but at this point i dont think they care about us at all.
It is at a lot of places, Specrum and Metro atleast. My husband is a nurse at Metro and only he can do the swabs in the nose. Might be different other health systems/states but that has been his experience.

Edit: Also, the self administered tests are not stoke up your nose, you rub it on both sides of the inside of the opening on your nose. I have had a self-administered test through spectrum.
Yep, Board of Trustees - I'd send it to the Chair.
I drive the 37, witnessed an accident today in front of 48 West. When there is a bus turning right in front of you, wait until we turn so you can see. I'm scared every day of people pulling out while I am turning into 48 West and the drive behind Main St. Pub. Also, don't illegally pass the bus when we are at Mackinac, we aren't there very long and you endanger pedestrians. 

Thanks,
Curtis
Thanks, Curtis. The extra 8 seconds of commute time from waiting for the bus to go is really not that big of a deal. Patience is a virtue.
By the way, what ever happened to, "For your safety, never cross in front of the bus after exiting?"

People cross any road as if there's an invisible crosswalk, even if there are cars clearly approaching. The other day, I almost hit someone because they crossed the road without looking after the sun went down. There was no visibility until the last moment when I slammed on my brakes.

Someone is going to get hurt some day.
Hey Curtis, I was curious if it is illegal to pass a bus on a one-lane road in general? I live in downtown GR and have a bus stop near my house. I usually pass it when I am on my way to campus, but I don’t know if what I’m doing is actually legal or not?
That announcement comes on once in a while. Out at GVSU it should be on every stop. 
About the crosswalks though, I find myself stopping the bus even when I don't really need to because who knows if that person is going to walk out into the road or not? 
When the crossing guards are out, it's awesome and I hope they are paid more than any other campus job because they deserve it. But when they aren't, I wish there was some other crossing light/guide in place.
I think as long as its not a school bus its fine. Just watch out for a Rapid bus pulling away from the stop. We are supposed to put a left signal on when we merge back in. School busses are the only ones you legally have to stop for and usually only when the stop sign arm is out.
What I was talking about though was at GVSU in front of Mac, its a double yellow line so no passing. Same with elsewhere, if its white dotted line its okay to pass.
I’m with you. I’m so up in the air about what to do for this following year. It’s so fucking scary
Hey min, I’d give anything to go back to GVSU. I need social interaction or I’m going to go insane
They are literally providing safe ways to make campus as normal as possible and you're trying to shade them...smh
I’ve lost so much faith in gv in the past few months. I’m still really upset that i was forced out of my on campus housing like two weeks after getting an exemption. I never thought I’d live off campus, but after the fiasco that was last semester, I can’t risk going through that headache again on top of trying to keep my grades up in my online classes.
I would too. I miss all of my friends. But so far I am not convinced by these town hall meetings that GVSU, or any other university really knows how to handle the pandemic. Sure, its not GV's fault to be in this situation - it's ok not to know what to do, but don't lie to us that you have everything under control.
They are charging us more money to shrink wrap furniture. Paying extra to be with 20,000 other people during a pandemic is not something I am personally anticipating.
I don’t blame you at all. It’s frustrating and scary. I’m in the boat of those who do not learn well online and I don’t want to pay MORE than full price for an education that’s only half as good. At the same time, however, I don’t feel safe about being on campus, even though I would learn much better in person. Everything feels so up in the air, and I realize that’s not particularly GV’s fault, but it’s hard not to be frustrated with the wishy-washy way that things are being handled.
I understand your frustration, and I would be more comfortable with a message that was more "nobody knows what will happen, and we're trying." There are definitely people who are not comfortable with that message, though.

GVSU is in a situation where it's impossible to satisfy everyone.

If GVSU leadership doesn't sound confident and explain what measures they are taking, they sound unprepared. If they do sound confident, they're accused of lying or being overconfident/over optimistic.

Some students are commenting and emailing that they won't attend unless classes are face-to-face. Other students are commenting and emailing that they won't attend unless classes are completely online.

Add to this the problem that GVSU has to have things planned in advance because it takes time to implement things. I have seen some of what is behind the scenes, and they're listening to students, parents, faculty, staff, and trying to balance needs.

In order to try to balance the desire for face to face classes and minimize risk, they have implemented teaching models that haven't been used at GVSU, and they had to find ways to make those models transparent to students.

They are currently trying to find ways to reach out to as many students as possible to troubleshoot schedules. They are asking faculty and staff to do more, and at the same time trying not to overwork employees.

I don't think anyone is saying everything is under control. I think a better way to say it is that they are doing all they can to control what they can and be as safe as they can while meeting the needs of various groups.
quality education > getting sick
No one is anticipating living with 20,000 people during a pandemic. Refer to a comment I made on a separate post...

[https://www.reddit.com/r/GVSU/comments/hrzx9i/petition\_grand\_valley\_to\_lower\_online\_class/fy9xwwr?utm\_source=share&utm\_medium=web2x](https://www.reddit.com/r/GVSU/comments/hrzx9i/petition_grand_valley_to_lower_online_class/fy9xwwr?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x)
thank you
Not Rolling the 1-3% death lottery>getting an education
Living, no. But do they plan to still charge an insane amount of money for a parking pass to be used once a week?
Literally. I’m not living on campus and it hit me a few days ago that I would have to buy a parking pass for the few times I have to be on campus for class.
Don't get mad at me, I just understand how GVSU is also suffering just as we are. With the increased federal financial aid they are adjusting prices as they and every other school has always done.
I understand, I don't live on campus either and a parking pass will suck to pay for. I hope they can figure out a way to make things cheaper but again I understand.
You think you understand because you aren't paying back loans yet.
How would you know my loan situation. I’ve been paying monthly what I can on student loans to lesser the haul after college. A majority of college students leave school with debt. For everyone on this post, I’m not happy with the increase in price for tuition or anything pandemic related. All I’m trying to say is that, logistically us and schools are suffering from COVID-19. I’m trying to give perspective for all the people who are just openly hating on GVSU. Some people have watched town halls and read emails etc and others are just complaining because they can. I’m happy school is coming back and we will somewhat be able to socialize and attempt to have normal college life. Not happy with the raise in tuition but glad GVSU is doing what they can to make us as safe as possible.
I’m unhappy at GV because one was making a ton of money for years and had absolutely no emergency plan. The other is working 2 jobs at minimum wage. Foresight is priceless
Glad my video has gotten such publicity over the last day or so. Sad it had to happen in the first place, more than anything.
Gvsu campus dining tweeted back at the original author and said “Thanks for sharing this video Cole. We put the proper distancing floor markers in place and need Lakers to encourage each other to use them. We’re happy to see the wide use of masks” 

This is such bullshit to me. You cannot put floor markers down and say “okay, our job is done here, time for the students to step up and enforce the rules”. The way Kleiner is set up, the way every dining hall is set up, the way the dorms and some classrooms are set up, makes social distancing IMPOSSIBLE if everyone is going to be inside. Of COURSE there’s a lunch and dinner rush at Kleiner! That’s where the freshmen know to go! 

Jesus inconsolable weeping Christ I do not understand why this is so difficult for admin to comprehend.
I saw the other posts about it. But here's the video submitted on Twitter by another student. Looks like the blue marks mean absolutely nothing.
At the dining hall now, they are suddenly limiting how many people are coming in. They are scared!!
I mean this is what will happen if there’s only one dining location open
Yesterday my roommate and I tried getting dinner and the only place open at 6pm was Kleiner. How can you preach social distancing and then make every student get food at the exact same place?
We've been trying our best to maintain Social Distancing guidelines at the Laker Store by reducing occupancy and changing procedures, but it really isn't enough.

 I wish things went online since then we wouldn't have a store full of people, all textbook orders placed would've been switched to shipping and they'd probably already be in UPSs hands by now...
Evidence that gv is going to shut down in 2 or 3 weeks at the max
It’s like this at Hope too except it was way more packed. It’s not right at all.
Looked the same way in the laker store when I went the buy a book
As a student here (live in North C, right across from Kleiner) I get so unnerved by the complete disregard for public safety and common courtesy. Try to leave space between myself and others, and it's just assumed that I'm not in line and I get completely trampled over.
I have a small theory here. Funneling us into a single hallway is perfect way to raise the percentage of people receiving the virus, this causing us to go fully online. Faculty are already pushing fully online classes. We saw the closing of all the other food places when the faculty members started pushing back. Any coincidence? Unsure.
This is absolutely criminal and not the students responsibility
they just tweeted they're enforcing distancing now, but only after the halls have been open for a week AND a local news station asked the guy who originally posted the video for an interview
Good luck enforcing it tho. Only way people take it seriously is if you threaten legal action, which in and of its self is hard to do
As a member of the GVSU community, I share a lot of the outrage and concerns recently seen in this subreddit. I do not mean to make light of a serious and seriously F'd situation... but "Jesus inconsolable weeping Christ" might be the favorite cuss I've heard in years and I fully intend to use it daily.
Ngl what covid has taught me is how much we actually cram people into stuff.
They also covered a bunch of markers up with rugs!
Its bc the video is getting so much clout everywhere
As soon as the tuition refund deadline has passed
Damn, this care package makes me want to get exposed to covid rq.
It’s all nice until your friend who’s severely lactose intolerant gets a box that’s 1/2 dairy products
They called beforehand to ask about any allergies!
they did for my friend as well, and then proceeded to ignore her lol
If she said something I'm sure she would get another one dairy free
hahaha epic
lol that's awesome! I did shenanigans like that when I was there, props to them. 
throwaway for obvious reasons, but students should know they are not alone in their frustrations and concerns. Employees have been asked to triple their work load with no pay increase and a hiring freeze. Communications have been vague and unhelpful. We are being pressured to return to campus despite safety concerns, for the sake of appearing as though everything is normal. I don't feel supported at all, and I am afraid my job will be threatened for speaking out. Disappointed with how things have been handled, to say the least.
Adjunct here. Nobody I know that I have adjuncted with in the past has been given a position for the fall. Full-time faculty have been asked to make a huge increase to their course loads.

This whole situation sucks.

* It sucks for the university, because their costs are increasing as they try to figure out how to move forward at the same time that enrollment decreases.
* It sucks for employees because full-time faculty have to figure out how to teach in suboptimal circumstances and deal with supporting way more students. Many part-time faculty and staff are losing their positions.
* It sucks for students because just about everything done to accommodate physical distancing is hurting the quality of the education they're getting.
* It sucks for parents who have to work with their kids to figure out what is best during this mess, whether that means going to school under these conditions, transferring out to a model they like better, moving their kids home while they take some time off from school, etc.

2020 really is a dumpster fire.
Staff here. I think the OP was trying to show that it is not just students who are struggling with higher education in these COVID times. Faculty and Staff have many of the same frustrations that students do while constantly being asked to "do more with less"; to put on a smile and be the face of GV when we do not have the answers. 

We are tired. 

We are trying to rally for the Fall semester, which is typically such an energizing and exciting time, but we are running on empty. 

We hear you. 

We feel you. 

We are all doing the best we can.
I am also an employee. Staff, not faculty. The town halls have left me feeling anxious and stressed. I have submitted my questions to the town halls, but those things are so scripted that they skip over any real answers to our questions. Before Covid GVSU had a strict, no working from home policy too.  I resent that I have to represent GVSU but the communication from the top has been so poor that I am often asked questions I can't answer.   
Students, we know you are struggling with your options. But please have grace with staff. We take the brunt of the anger from students and parents but have no control over the decisions being made.
Everything is not all normal though. The uni needs to stop trying to act like it is.
Are you a student worker or full time employee?
It's said that any time your workload increases get a raise. Unfortunate that our overlords disagree.
Unionize with your colleagues. Don't let them do this to you
I think it’s probably more productive to talk to the university rather than Reddit.
I think that most students understand that this is definitely a problem at the admin level and not with staff/faculty. However, what bothers me is that there is very little public pushback against admin from staff/faculty. We as students have extremely limited leverage. I know staff have a reason to fear for jobs...but it would be obvious if they were reprimanded for speaking out and it would cause a PR nightmare for admin. I truly wish a bunch of staff would sign an open letter or pen an opinion piece in MLive. That’s where a lot of my frustration with staff comes from I guess if that makes sense.
The problem with this is that in reality, students have ALL the leverage. If there are no students, there is no University. I'm no longer a student, so I don't know how bad things have become, but if it's as bad as people are making it out to be, leave. Go to a community college for a semester or a year. Believe it or not, the school will notice and they will be forced to make changes. This pandemic is not an ideal situation for anybody, but don't think that because you have no voice, you have no leverage. Let your money do the talking.
If you have your Gen Eds done or are in a grad program (myself included) the only option is GVSU classes. I’m not even allowed to pause my program, because I’m in the licensing phase.
What what. Please explain. This can't be real.
Does anyone know how long after he got stuck the train hit him?

I feel like this shows the lack of efficiency of tow companies mainly. This should have been an emergency situation and they should have gotten someone there quicker. Unless of course the train hit the bus shortly after it got stuck
Has any article been written about this??
I wonder if the bus got free tuition 🤔
Check the news. Bus got stuck on the tracks. Bus driver got passengers off safely and before it could get towed, a train hit it.
Yes, Woodtv has it. It was kind of the tamest ever bus vs train situation you can get, luckily. The driver got the passengers off and was able to flag the engineer. The engineer was able to slow the train, but not stop it. The train hit the bus at 4mph.
 [Source](https://www.woodtv.com/news/grand-rapids/no-injuries-when-train-hits-rapid-bus/)
There’s a couple
Thank you for the context!
I saw all the cop cars and heard a rumor that a body was found??? Just wondering if anyone knows anything.
Obviously there is a lot of speculation going around, but has anybody heard about another body being found in Enclave? & also a girl being hospitalized after being jumped by 5 guys? All last night... wtf is going on
saw a car that was surrounded by police tape too. Not sure if that’s related
Rape and murder is what it sounds like. My friend lives over there. Said a runner found a body in a field topless.
Did they ever find the missing girl that was posted on here about 23 days ago?
it’s sus bc like if it was a rape/murder I feel like the perp wouldn’t dump them someplace in the open like the email seems they were found
This is what the email included:

&#x200B;

  
  The Grand Valley State University Police Department and the Ottawa County Sheriff’s Office are jointly investigating a suspicious death. On the morning of December 12, 2020, a body was found on the Grand Valley State University Allendale Campus by a runner near the intermural athletic fields, south of West Campus Drive. Police said there was no identification with the body.
the local news just reported it it’s basically the same email GV sent out but it ended with if you have any info call the police basically so that’s not a good sign
I dont think they have any more details to give us. 😑
Wow this is crazy
Yo can we get any verification on this. I’m bout a drive over to north campus to see what’s up
Jesus, really? We should create a thread where people can post news stories related to all of these events, maybe that would help limit speculation. I understand there is limited information now, but I anticipate more as the night goes on
Someone on Facebook said they talked to the Enclave staff and they stated that the supposed second body is a hoax. I haven't seen the video of the fight, and can't find it anywhere, so I don't really know anything about that.
I also have heard this from multiple friends, not sure what to believe, regardless we probably shouldn’t further rumors as it can make things hard to figure out and spread panic
nah that was from a girl fight that started at a party last night. Got a good amount of blood on the trunk but no one was seriously hurt I don't think
Confirmed murder. Gv alert system just said it was
Dahila type shit wtf
Missing girl???
could also be possible that they left the victim in the rain thinking any evidence would be washed away so they didn’t care. Just an idea
Maybe the perp paniced?
So the area is described as near the intramural fields and cross country trail. 

To me, that sounds like the trailhead near Lake Ontario Hall and the yellow art buildings. That’s nearby the field where the band would sometimes practice, which could be the “intramural fields” the email says. 

If there were two bodies found, I think it would have to be an enormous coincidence that these were unrelated deaths. Could be double murder or murder suicide. 

Stay safe out there guys

I used to walk my dog there and its pretty secluded, not really out in the open.
Do you know if that’s on YouTube at all? I can’t find any news reports
just got an email it’s true
Maybe don't do that. You and every other rubber necker are going to make things harder for the people over there trying to do their jobs.
Yeah I don’t mean to spread fear by even posting this, but that is speculation that has circled around several groups of my friends throughout the campus community. I’m in no way saying it’s true, but if three events of this nature happened in one night, I’m horrified & also very scared of what else could happen
The Enclave idea never had any actual confirmed info so it probably just came up with people’s minds wandering. I have a copy of the fight video & it’s not related to the campus incident. I know it has been posted on social media & removed a few times, I won’t be posting it bc there’s really no need to. It’s already been shared with authorities for other reasons. I will say I don’t expect GVPD or the university to comment on the campus incident though. I know they gathered a lot of information yesterday & things aren’t turning out to be as “suspicious” as they seem. They used that terminology in the first place because the body was found without ID. Still a tragic event for family & friends who have experienced a significant & unexpected loss, but GV never tends to address these things further even though the community is obviously very shaken up.
There is an SUV/crossover type car on campus across from Laker village that was taped off by GVPD as of earlier today, not the white car in relation to the off campus fight
Where?? The email did not confirm murder
It obviously sounds bad but we shouldn’t file out suicide
Yea like 23 days ago someone posted a screenshot of a girl missing from the Grand Rapids campus but I tried looking up more info and I haven’t found anything so I’m just wondering if it’s her
I can see that as well, and the track area where it seems she was found (my mom is on a GV  parents fb group and somebody posted she was found on the track on the straight away part closest to the off campus apartments..don’t know how accurate this is but) like it just seems like a weird place to put a body, like I understand like that’s a close place to the off campus apartments so it’s a quick dump but like idk it still seems off
fair but still
That's not really south of West campus drive though. It has to be near the track, soccer field, and lacrosse field. There's a big cross county trail back there by the storm water retainment ponds too. What does everyone mean about two bodies? Sounds unconfirmed.
https://www.wzzm13.com/article/news/crime/body-found-on-gvsu-allendale-campus/69-e81ade31-e070-4c34-8293-5caa5d2717c6
https://www.wzzm13.com/amp/article/news/crime/body-found-on-gvsu-allendale-campus/69-e81ade31-e070-4c34-8293-5caa5d2717c6
No, of course. It's important for everyone to be up to date so we can all stay safe. I'm going to make a post asking everyone to add sources as we get them.
GVPD has released another statement today saying that they are still considering it a suspicious death. I am sure they are waiting for the full autopsy report before they release a manner of death to the public.
oh i didn't hear about that one
ohhh yeah i think she was found but im not 100% sure. I thought i saw a post that she was found but i could be wrong
Seems really off. That’s near my running route and there are security cameras all around that area. I’m really anxious to read a report/get more info. 

Everyone reach out to your friends to make sure they’re alright!
I was watching the news coverage from WOOD TV 8 and it looks like from what the video said, the body that was found on the east side of laker village near the entrance to the intramural fields. The body was found between the patch of grass between the parking lot and the street.
I can get in the way and interrupt an investigation because I want to satisfy my curiosity about something that doesn’t concern me
I’ve also since seen a video of the fight that happened in Alpine last night, which was minscontrued information. 2 girls fighting in the parking lot, several friends (guys included) trying to break it up... no jumping involved. But still waiting for more concrete news on the other situations
It’s a suspicious death because they had no ID. No one knows what the official cause of death is.
No, it doesn't lmao. This is completely false

\* A **death** is **suspicious** if it is unexpected and its circumstances or cause are medically or legally unexplained. Normally, this occurs in the context of medical care, suicide or suspected criminal activity. \*
You’re an idiot.
good point I didn’t even think of all those cameras, prayers for their friends and family
There is also a white Chevy Malibu in the video that there is another photo of the car and it is absolutely covered in blood in the back
Aren’t they legally permitted to tell us what the cause was?
She was topless and face down in a field. What do you think the cause of death was.
I mean, maybe? But allendale isnt really known for having a high level of drug related crimes. Given how recent the discovery is i dont think the police report is out yet
Yes, that car is connected to that fight, which is not connected to the body on campus.
I’m sure we’ll get more answers as the investigation continues. The GV alert email is the only official source of information we’ve gotten so far.
But see, you're prematurely assuming a conclusion.  We do not know for an absolute fact that this is true.  All we know definitively, thus far, is that a body was found by a runner on North campus.  Anything beyond that cannot be relied on as fact.
I’ve seen this speculation quite a few times - where did you hear that information? I’m not questioning your credibility, I just want to know if there was a news article I missed or something.
I’m not going to assume the cause of death out of respect for the victim and their family. Instead of spreading rumors and speculation I’m going to wait for official, credible statements.
I work in Kleiner campus dining and have a shift keeping the dining room clean. PLEASE STOP MOVING FURNITURE! THE CHAIRS AND TABLES ARE THERE FOR A REASON. If you decide to have a big group (your not supposed to but we can't do anything to stop you, find a long table or booth or atleast have the decency to put chairs back where you found them). Also people have to wipe down your table after you touch it, and so many people come and go, we already have to keep track of that so having to move furniture slows us down and we lose track of what tables have been sat on. I had a group of kids push 5 small round tables together that were spread far apart to make a longer table. I had to pull them all and drag them back to there place. Its my job, whatever I can't stop you but its kinda rude please don't be that person. If you can, try to pick a table before you sit there also.
So sorry you have to deal with this, but thank you for the PSA! This basically applies to all buildings on campus. If the furniture is configured a certain way, just leave it.
I'm sure even if y'all bolt 'em down, folks will find a way to fuck it up.
Can you ask your supervisor to post more signs directing people not to move tables or chairs?
People are assholes. Especially people on this campus. You won’t believe the amount of groups of 4/5 people I see walking about without masks on when I’m taking night walks. Have some fucking decency, assholes.
So sorry to hear this, you are woefully underpaid. I don't know how much you are paid, but it isn't enough.
This is not an easy time for anyone on campus. Everybody is working hard to keep students safe and keep our doors open for service.  Hot meals and jobs are on the line when students refuse to social distance. 

If we all remain calm and respectful we can be successful in our efforts. Patients and helpful resources can go a long way in our efforts. 

Stay safe and respectful Lakers!
This sounds very stressful. Tbh the advice I have to give that I think you should follow is just to quit and find a job anywhere else, but campus dining. If you have too and can't immediately quit due to financial issues then start applying and then just switch once you get hired somewhere else. All the fast food areas off campus pay more. Meijer pays way better than campus dining too. My point is though that this job has always been garbage and more work than those other places, and as stated previously campus dining just pays like shit with just minimum wage. While the people not wiping tables and not moving back the chairs might be not nice, or great I really am not going to say I can feel bad for you if you decide to stay working at kleiner. This is some tough love to have, but I really want the best for you by urging you to definitely ditch this shitty option for something that is way better. Another thing you can do whether or not you leave is to complain and suggest to your managers to hire people to work on keeping the chairs in order and the tables wiped. Really as a customer the customers really shouldn't have to be expected to have to wipe their table. That should be something the workers should be doing. CD should really just get folks to be designated just for wiping and keeping chairs in the same spots
Lol it’s kleiner, and that will cost money
I don't think it's an issue of not knowing so much as it's an issue of not caring.
Minimum wage is their pay. And barely any chance for worthwhile raises. It's like 10 cents raise for working a whole year there. Literally mcdonalds starts people out at 11 and is a way easier job actually.
i don’t feel like we read the same post. to me it sounds like op is frustrated that people are moving chairs and it’s making it harder to keep track of which to clean. 

i work in campus dining and at my location we do, in fact, have someone hired specifically to wipe down tables. 

and why should op quit because people don’t understand why the chairs are separated to begin with? campus dining isn’t really all that bad otherwise.
If people want the ease of working on campus I sort of understand it but the library pays better with better jobs

Besides that yeah when I was a freshman I knew tons of people working at the Meijer. I would reccomend mennas but the owner is insane and it's 100% shut down now anyways

There are other better places to work in 48west, on lake mich drive (the pub pays well), and along the bus routes. The liquor stores used to be perpetually hiring. 

Imo the people at CD only work there so they never have to leave campus. Idk why anyone would work there otherwise
Yes, I know the university's pay scale. I advocate my department to pay beyond minimum wage and do so, but also will acknowledge the absolute lack of positions on campus for students who need them.
For sure I could see maybe some freshmen not being comfortable with knowing where things are possibly off campus, so they choose too work on campus.

I'm just suggesting to op that since they don't seem to be having a good time at their campus dining job which is pretty normal honestly. That there are better choices and I would absolutely consider them if I was op. I don't care if I come off as a jerk in this comment or my initial comment because it is something I believe in and know to be true and I believe some tough love scenario that leads to a vastly improved outcome for someone is totally worth it.
I think aramark pays the students though, or actually I think the students are hired by gvsu but the older managers who aren't student managers are hired by aramark
I'm 100% on your side and I don't even see you coming off as a dick, just flat out blunt about the reality of it. I've been thru it too and realized within a month it was a waste of time and went to mennas as soon as I got my car to campus.

CD has its perks and at kleiner in 2014 it was a great culture outside of a shitty manager. It still just boils down to not needing to leave campus and always being right by home. Just was making trash for money and wasn't studying enough so I dipped.
Yes, GVSU has a contract with Aramark so the non-student employees are contract, not technically GVSU staff.
It may just be me and how my professors have set up their online classes. But I can prepare as much as I want for the week like when new assignment are posted on Monday or Sunday, but throughout the week more assignments are posted, specifically quiz and tests are posted on weekends and can’t be accessed prior. This leads me to always having work on Friday/Sat/Sun regardless of how I’ve prepared or the week. It’s seriously annoying and I feel like I’ll be doing work everyday for the next 14 weeks where as if it were in person the week would be potentially Monday - Friday like I’m used to. Not saying I don’t ever want to work on the weekend, but I just feel like I’m being forced to, as I cannot prepare for the week like I’d prefer.
Yup. One class has half the stuff due Tuesday, the rest on Sunday. Another class leaks assignments randomly throughout the week with weird due dates (one day it's Wednesday 4pm another it's Friday 6:30pm). Then my third class is always due Saturday. 

No idea how yall are keeping up when I have 3 classes and still need to attend to them all daily. I feel like I have just enough work

Edit I've heard of 2am due dates too
I agree! Especially taking only online and living at home, it just kind of feel like if I’m not doing work, I SHOULD be? And there’s always been a sense of that to a degree, but this year I’ve noticed it more than ever. It’s exhausting
I thought i was the only one that felt this lol
I have the mindset of finishing things all during the week and not during the weekend. I have not had any professors create assignments on Friday due Sunday or Saturday. Just do everything during the week, even if it is a few days before the due date. 

treat school like a 9-5 job.
Well I work 10 hours Friday, Saturday and Sunday so I grind constantly until my brain just shuts down. I do get all my coursework done though. Hard to keep up with the videos especially.
My advice is to let your professors know. It isn't easy for anybody, and the vast majority of professors have your interests at heart. The different modalities are unfamiliar to professors, too, and they may be loading you up because they don't want you to "fall behind", but overloading students is also going to make them fall behind
yeah there is 5x the homework now, as well as 100's of long ass videos to watch.  

 Basically just regular class but with less effort from professors and more homework to do on my own.
It’s the fact that professors think that since classes are online well have more time to do do coursework. Well that’s true, until all professors have this mindset and continue to post more and more content.
Lol. Wait until you  work in the real world.
Just when you think you can chill for a second..BUZZ new blackboard assignment due Saturday 12:01 am
I had 6AM due dates at one point, but it was a time zone thing. I agree the emails are a deluge sometimes.
Yeah this is the best approach. Same goes for being self employed or working remote, most of the time.
I promise for most profs it is way, way, way more effort to teach online than f2f.
Then respectfully explain this to your professors. Online classes also make it much harder to "read the room". The only way they will know you are feeling overwhelmed is if you tell them
A lot of us do work in the “real world” and attend college full time.  Don’t try to act superior when clearly you need validation from strangers on the internet.
Don’t be that guy, no one enjoys that guyyy
You sound like my drunk uncle
The constant emails. So many announcements this semester. I'll be laying in bed and a new assignment will pop up and I just go "fuck"
my uncle talks shit to me because I don't know how to cut hair and don't have a business at 22 because I'm in college lmao
For anyone making assumptions about GVSU's costs one way or the other, feel free to look into the details instead: https://www.gvsu.edu/busfin/gvsu-financial-reports-28.htm
And it seems to be true. Most of my classes went from 'in-person' to 'hybrid' to 'online'.
As long as you’re going to a big enough program that it wouldn’t get eliminated in the meantime.
Excellent comments re GRCC.
Sorry but why does a public school have financial reserves?
I am not saying they shouldn't have money. Having reserves implies money they don't spend unless shit gets really bad. When I hear hospitals laying people off even though they have billions in reserved it makes my blood boil when they ask for hand outs. I suspect GVSU will do the same thing.
Not a profit based insituion my ass. Get the boot out of your mouth.
I wouldn't have taken it that far but yeah gv is very obviously profit based and its kind of absurd there's people in this thread acting like they can't afford to cut costs right now. It's what 15k for tuition alone, and they need that from every student just to stay afloat a semester?

Why the fuck do I still have to shell out 300+ for a parking pass when I only have 2 hybrid courses and the rest are online?

This thread reeks of shill but I don't think gv would be shilling on such a small sub

Bizarre to me people think this "bait and switch" is OK for a college to do, let alone ethical at all.
To be fair is there any other sub for GVSU? Got to shill where you can ha. Despite charging 15 k a year GVSU will be the first university asking for some more $$$$ from the gov. Got to pay the salaries of the administration.  Fuck the faculty and staff though.GVSU is only a small mom and pop business.  /s
White knighting for colleges is not a good look.
I highly doubt they have any need to shill because they make so much money.

If you break down what each student pays a year - estimated cost a year is over 30k only looking at tuition and living expense before food. 

That means that each singular student should technically be able to pay an entire salary for a regular person. I don't even think professors get paid over a max of 75k a year and a salary that high is very rare. That's what schools psychiatrists make, not usually teachers. There are salaries as low as 20k a year at gvsu as well (more on the lower end than high end) . It should even out to an average of around 40k (if not closer to 30k) - nearly what each average student spends in total at gvsu a year. Does not include text books and other expenses. 

Knowing how many students there are vs employed personnel... Well it looks like there is an insane amount of surplus

Really makes you wonder what the higher ups are paying themselves... Oh that's right, over 200k a year for some fucking reason. [Edit oh I misspoke. Some get paid nearly 500k ](https://www.reddit.com/r/GVSU/comments/hfcnr6/president_of_gvsu_gets_paid_480000_a_year_but)

If you want to jump into maintenance, well I blame gvsu for jumping on so many construction endeavors if they couldn't afford them without extra money laying around in case of emergency. Disgusting to me they basically redid all of Allendale within the last 6 years and can't afford to cut tuition costs this one year. 

It's a multi million dollar university. They should have been prepared. Now students are being fucked over and told "no cut the university some slack they just aren't good with money ha ha it's only your tuition that's being ruined"

I feel like a lot of you guys are not grasping how much you are actually paying whether its because you have someone else paying it or don't yet realize how massive the loans required are.

2 semesters of loans is literally a years salary for so many people.
Too real....too fuckin real...
Or some who are still waiting for over a week and then get “randomly selected” before even getting their first results back
If they promised to donate all proceeds to something for students in need, no issue. Ticket sales from football help fund ALL sports programs and athletic scholarships which have already been paid out. GV is now looking at an impending budget shortfall. I get it. But this was a horrible PR move on their part.
Can we have T Haas back?
Damn, this is pathetic.
This is so tacky oh my god

We hate to see it
Hard cringe from an alumnus
Like we can’t have football games but they want us to buy tickets for seats that they aren’t using.
I mean, I get it?  But also the way they worded it like it was some huge honorable act was just...extremely offputting.
I personally think this "game" is in pretty questionable taste, but I honestly don't think GV thinks they deserve to get donations "because \[they're\] handling covid so well". I think they are doing their best, and I know for a fact that they are trying their hardest. I think they are well aware that their best is far from perfect.

The truth is, though, that state funding is practically non-existent, enrollment is down, both because of demographic shifts and because of CoViD, administrators are taking pay cuts, and hiring is frozen. There is a very real possibility that GV could have to start laying people off. They have already asked some folks to take early retirement. Faculty are taking on higher teaching loads with no more pay (which means pay cuts if you account for cost of living increases), and support staff are adding covid related tasks to what they already do, again, with no increase in pay and no additional staff.

And before somebody starts complaining about bloat, you should realize that GV already runs lean. Very lean. I know people think that administration rakes in big bucks, but GV is extremely admin light. A recent personnel audit showed that GV has roughly half the IT personnel that an institution this size needs, for example.

So, I guess what I'm saying is that yeah, GV kind of has their hand out, and it's kind of janky how they did this particular drive, but it's not because they think they deserve a pat on the back for their covid response. They really do try to put students first, even at the expense of faculty and staff.
I laughed out loud. My grandma was very confused as to why they would try to keep a tradition alive when it isn't actually happening. I had to explain it's just a fundraiser.
Can anyone explain to me what i'd be paying for if i were dumb enough to buy this? It straight up sounds like a really complex way to say "donation"
Our new president is unbelievable
Big facts
Yes...please....
I took 3 years off and I'm fucking disgusted with how they massacred my college
Technically, he is teaching a class and has an office...
You have no idea how accurate you are
Every day
My prof just emailed and I know the girl who passed. She was in my class and her death makes no sense. Super sweet, bubbly, positive and popular... What the hell happened? I understand why they are being tight lipped at the moment but I hope eventually we will be directly told yes this was a murder or no it wasn't so we can protect ourselves and look out for each other.
Jesus. I’m sorry it hit close to home. This is so bizarre and scary. I know why they can’t give us a ton of info, but it feels like we deserve to know. How is anyone supposed to focus on their exams?
I’m so sorry - please, if you’re struggling (even if you’re not, it may be good to speak with someone) reach out to [campus counseling](https://www.gvsu.edu/counsel/) or the Dean of Students Office at 616-331-3585

Please don’t hesitate to message me if there is anything I can do for you. We don’t have near enough information about this tragedy, but that doesn’t mean we can’t support each other nonetheless.
They probably won’t release manner of death until the cause of death is confirmed by the medical examiner. 

I think everyone should probably assume it’s a murder, although it would be a stretch to assume there’s a serial killer on the loose. Most murders are acts of passion, committed by someone the the victim knows. 

Be safe, but there’s no reason to freak out yet.
I didn’t know the girl but have so much anger from this. So tragic and unfair. I don’t want to wish harm upon anyone, but if this was a murder I hope the piece of shit who did this gets what they deserve.
Can I give you a high 5 for taking so many CC classes and saving money! Wise choice. Congrats on graduating!
History major?
Nice job!
My transcript looks eerily similar. Graduated in ‘15 and I had the same situation - dual enrollment w/ summer classes. Transferred from CMU too, which added to total. Ended up with somewhere between 150 and 160 credits. Kudos on the dual enrollment CC route; it’s a great way to get things out of the way if you know what you want and a cheaper way to figure out what you don’t like.
how was gpy 209? i'm thinking about taking it this semester but i'm not sure about it
Are you me?
They allowed dual-enrollment at my high school and I picked up summers while there. Thank you! I look forward to seeing my prices after I totally finish school. (I’m looking into Ph.D. programs)
Yeah!
I had it with Dr. Chad Frederick. He’s a character and is a literal chad. Definitely my favorite teacher that I had. The guy plays EU4 like crazy and talks about all the time. In terms of the class, it’s rough for most students. I was the only one who got an A in that course. 

If you think it’s about city planning like I did, then you’ll be disappointed. It’s more about thinking systematically when it comes to cities and regions. I heard he was going to change the name but I don’t know if he got around to it.
Are you me?  
([https://imgur.com/gallery/EVswN](https://imgur.com/gallery/EVswN))
Seek all of the funding that you can anywhere and everywhere. I was a graduate assistant and it helped.
I’m thinking Kirk. After a morning class and a cup of coffee, when I just have to use the porcelain throne, Kirk offers the Best bathroom. Any thoughts?

Edit: thanks for the suggestions, looks like I’ll have to do some bathroom tourism in the coming weeks 🚽
I actually know the answer for this, and sit down everyone, cuz I guarantee you this is the best answer. 

Go into Zumberge Hall. As the building for all the higher-ups of the university, they keep those bathrooms in PRISTINE quality and cleanliness at all times. They’re spacious, too, and there’s rarely anyone ever in there. Sure, most students don’t usually walk in there randomly, but nobody is going to tell you not to be there, and I can guarantee you it’s by far the best bathrooms on campus.
Finally someone is asking the important questions lol
You're dumb if you think i'm giving up my favorites
Does it have to be in Allendale? If not, 5th floor devos on the pew campus. It's next to the president's office. Huge, solo bathroom, 100% unoccupied.
I only know of the ladies restroom in Mackinaw that is hidden near the 1st floor vending machines. The Haas Theatre building is usually not busy later in the afternoon.
No longer a student so I'll pass the torch and tip you off to my tried and true bathroom secret.  My go-to place was the admin buildings in Laker Village (I believe there are 2).  Both have single-room bathrooms and are pretty much empty all day as classes are in session.  They're also only a short walk from Kirkof or the Connection if you're in the area during the day.
You can pop by my dorm and I'll let you lay a stinky in my toilet anytime
the Calder bathrooms tend to be quiet and smell good. would recommend
In Holton Hooker behind Einsteins. Rarely occupied, new, convenient. My fav spot.
You made me think lmao. Of the bathrooms I have personally visited I'm gonna go with the bathrooms on the Atrium floor of the library. Randomly way more spacious than any other library bathrooms and more comfortable as well. Can't expect to be completely alone but it does get less traffic than other floors
The bathrooms in Padnos (while not my first choice) usually smell like cinnamon, which is nice. Good backup spot.
Seidman Center, third floor bathrooms (professors offices occupy the third floor so they're nice and quiet)
In the bushes by Fresh
If you go into the field house bathrooms, not the ones upstairs, the ones the athletes use, while nobody is there, it’s silent and the toilet seats are different and super ergonomic it feels like the seat hugs your bum. That combined with the privacy and silence makes it unreal to poop there.
The 2nd and 3rd floors of most buildings tend to have clean and rarely used bathrooms. This is like 8 years old knowledge but from what I can remember:

1 - that one science building with the large lecture halls had pretty pristine bathrooms on the upper flowers.

2 - that one building where you can get your meals from between the outskirts of campus and the theatre building had great bathrooms on 2nd floor.

3 - upper floors of every other building except for the high traffic buildings.
The second floor of Lake Ontario was always my go-to. There’s an awesome study space up there too if you wanna hunker down somewhere more secluded than the library.
In the toilet.
Sounds like a risky move, but if they’re of the quality you say, it’s certainly worth it.
I can second that: I work in Zumberge as do a decent amount of students. The stairs are a bitch but the 3rd or 4th floor would be ideal
I swear the TP was better too
Hard pass on that my guy
Definitely out of my way, but I appreciate the suggestion!
Oh I like a new bathroom
Can confirm. Second floor as well
wasn’t particularly impressed with the toilet paper there, but to each their own. certainly far worse places
Oh yeah. Those library bathrooms are huge.
Yeah I’d much rather poo at home base, but when I gotta go I gotta go
Mak has a 4th floor? I swear to god that building is a labyrinth.
There’s zero risk, I guarantee it. Just depends if you’re willing to go out of your way for it (considering nobody has classes or anything there)
Kinda gay but whatever
I pass by it regularly, will definitely look.
Our president must be so happy! This is what she wanted right?
I’d love that $200 but I simply cannot remember to do it.
You mean 'in'famous lol
It do be like that
Can't you set it up so they email you every day
wish i had info i could give, but i’ve been in isolation (not from getting it). keeping the family in my thoughts and my dms are open if you lost a friend. <\3
Really...
You shouldn’t need to actually know who they are to have them in your thoughts. They are a family who lost their child, and that’s all I need to know to think about them and the horrible situation they’re going through..
Freezing cold take
What was it?  Its warm in bed and i need to cool down a bit.
Locking comments. Please make COVID-related posts in the sticky thread.
Not sure if it's like this at the other dining halls because I've only been to Kleiner so far, but last night I went around 6 and the place was packed pretty tight, no room for social distancing, and a few without masks. There weren't any staff trying to regulate people to wait in line or see whether or not the hall was at capacity for people (i'm pretty sure it was way over). I'm not trying to police everything and be that person, but if GVSU isn't even putting effort forth to enforce their own COVID-19 policies we're going to get sent home pretty quickly, and I just don't want to have to move home after having just moved in. Is anyone else seeing super crowded dining areas?
YES Kleiner is a mess! I am wondering why they don’t limit capacity when they know hundreds of freshman are coming in all confused and probably unprepared for covid guidelines. Atleast at lunch and dinner rushes.
I had a feeling Kleiner would be packed; it’s the only nearby food place for basically all of the freshmen (since fresh is closed) and I was curious on how they would handle it. It doesn’t help that freshmen don’t really have the best chance to cook their own food either (besides for the ones in apartment style).
Tangentially related but I work at a restaurant in the area and the past week we’ve been packed with GV students. Many larger groups of sometimes up to 15 people looking dine in together. On top of that as soon as they sit down masks come off and I can see they all cram into cars together to carpool so lots of close contact between everyone. I’m just waiting for the big outbreaks to happen.
Kleiner is always crowded; seems like getting rid of Fresh will only add to that. IMO they should have made Fresh no-self-serve and required masks while in the food areas. Doesn't help that many Freshmen are from out of state and are used to different rules and regulations. Shutdown here we come!
Besides Kleiner, the commons next to Holton is pretty packed too. I’m not sure about kirkhof
I was literally going to make a post about this today. I'm pretty nervous about covid-19 and have been doing things to keep myself protected, but seriously, I bet you the dining halls will be the place where the inevitable covid-19 outbreak begins. The actual area where you order your food is not equipped for social distancing, and neither is the dining room, and obviously people don't wear masks when they are eating.  Yesterday I watched people move tables and chairs so that they could sit with like 6+ people while they ate. And I was under the impression that dining rooms would be closed and food would be given to us in to-go boxes to take back to our rooms, but maybe I got confused in the tons of emails they sent to us.
Someone should take a video of the crowds and post it
Yeah the The Commons/Fuel and the Starbucks at Marketplace had suuuuper long lines with lots of people. I wish Grubhub wasn't so pricey or I would be living of that.
Is any other on Campus food even open
i work at fuel. the lines are hella long, but we have a student manager letting folks in. some of the union workers/full timers had to tell people to stop crowding and to social distance. on the bright side, 99% of folks wear the masks right there.
lol how about you stop being a wuss. Dont go in if you dont want to. Have someone bring your food out to you... smh
Yeah, I told my roommate I want to find somewhere else until Kleiner calms down or they find a way to spread everyone out a bit and limit the amount of people inside.
That's what I thought too. I know we're not supposed to move the furniture around and stuff but Kleiner is not equipped for this at allllll
Someone did! It's on twitter
[Kleiner](https://twitter.com/ccurtiss98/status/1298763043476828161?s=21)
Absolutely Agree
This was posted above, but for those that missed it here’s the link to [Campus Dining website ](https://www.gvsu.edu/campusdine/hours-index.htm) that has hours/menus for the venues.
sorry that i don't want campus to get shut down??
Your best bet is walking to kirkoff for lunch. But that not awesome for dinner because they close at 4
Best of luck to you!
It's really scary, and idk if you saw the tweet someone posted in the comments but GVSU foods was like "there are markers for students to stand on. Glad to see everyone wearing masks!", like literally SHUT UP it makes you look SO STUPID, everyone can see that they are not social distancing. Fox 17 contacted the twitter account that posted the tweet and might be doing an interview.
Oh that's awful
Thank you! They didn't give us any information on dining when we got here, every other freshman I've talked to said they have 0 idea where to go and what is/isn't open, this helps! :)
Check out the [Campus Dining website](https://www.gvsu.edu/campusdine/hours-index.htm) for hours and menus. Restaurants usually have reduced hours during move-in week, but it should be better next week!
Canvas is awful lol. Never had a landlord threaten me before, over the fact the contractor they were sending to our unit to fix our heat didn't know how to fix it and thus was just charging them hundreds for coming out every few days. But apparently the issue had to stem from two teenagers who hadn't had heat for two months (Oct-Dec) and were begging them daily to actually get it fixed. We clearly had to be doing something that was making the furnace not work. Don't forget letting mold run rampant in apartments and HVAC systems getting people sick. Dont go to Canvas.
Love that last little bit. You’re already screwed just by being here, you might as well enjoy your bed
I’d probably put Canvas further down this list - every person I know that’s lived there has tons of stories of bad experiences with management and or/maintenance. I agree with the rest of the order, though. Where did you get the $350 number for Campus View’s activity fee? Me and all my roommates paid $250.
Locale has flat rate utilities now!
FullCircle GVSU is pretty cheap and is a decent place to live, right across from campus
My adult kid (graduated from GV) lived in a 1br on his own at West Wind. 1k plus a month and he paid all utilities by himself. No roommate drama, no parties disrupting him but plenty across the street when desired, no need to ever move between semesters, great office staff. The most expensive option we looked at but no regrets at all.
Locale is TERRIBLE. Lies to tenants to get them to sign up, doesn’t discipline problem tenants, we had no hot water or WiFi when we moved in and had to threaten legal action in order to leave when they attempted to take my service animal from me by calling animal control (which is extremely illegal). Don’t live there. Look at their reviews back in 2016-2017 when they were “Evolve” before signing.
Honestly 48 is God awful and the only saving grace is the pool room. Crowded ass pool, loud on Thursday thru Sunday, suite style is HORRID and way too hot. Literally never got a good sleep there. 

Trio south was hands down the best imo but I haven't lived at each of these in op. Meadows was great, conifer was ok

Edit wanted to add I've never met someone who lived there longer than a year including multiple friends and an ENTIRE frat
Anyone have experience with Sutter's Mill?
there are benefits of living on campus too!! closest you can get to classes and a very studious environment. no parties and overall a quiet place. while you don’t get all the amenities of off campus living, it’s a very quiet and safe place :)
mystic is the best one if you have a car
Alright I'll throw Canvas down to 5th. CV's activty fee was $350 in 2019-2020 for me I just figured it didnt change but I guess it did.

Also thx for addition input! I will try to improve and edit the information whenever possible! I'm 100% open to this list being criticized.
I agree, 48 is pretty gross. I didn't personally live there but I have a few groups of friends who did and they all hate it there and want to move as soon as possible
I lived at 48West for 3 years, one spent in a one bedroom and two in a two bedroom townhouse. They had clearly not been renovated since they were made in 2008, and our apartment was falling apart with very old appliances. And they kept raising the rent for the extra shit like the pool or hot tub that we could never use because people kept bringing fucking glass into the pool area or leaving used condoms in the hot tub sanitizing unit.
I lived there a few years ago and have nothing bad to say about it. Management was helpful and friendly, all of the bedrooms were spacious. Can’t beat the price for what you get. It was a little outdated, but it was still really nice.
You’re welcome! I just looked into it and it looks like the price dropped in the last few years, so we might’ve just paid different amounts 😄
Don't get me fucking started on how often I couldn't use the pool OR hot tub because someone broke 1 beer bottle in 2 and it apparently takes an entire day to clean up plus a day to "punish" us because one dude screwed  up
Thank you, I'm moving in in a couple months and just wanted to see what other people thought
I NEVER used it the entire time I lived there, it happened so often! Management treated us like children because people who lived there acted like it and wrecked it for the rest of us.
Sorry you got no graduation ceremony
Congrats
Congrats!!! Good luck in your endeavors!!
Maybe he/she can walk in 2021 lol?
I want to teach you about this word, they
I am referring to a singular person not multiple people.  Nice try though.
Signed. I hope they do something. They must think this pandemic didn’t affect us at all financially...
GVSU is suffering financial setbacks just like us. I don't like the raise in tuition but they are losing money during all this as well. Events, programs, etc. will most likely be cancelled that would've brought money in to make the university better. I don't like the increase but I understand why.
Signed !
Many of the administration are totally out of touch with the plights of students. Will be funny when they loose their jobs.
Isn't this exactly what an endowment is for though? Saving for a rainy day so they don't have to take it out on student tuition?
Same!
I'm guessing you got downvoted because of that last sentence. I know I wouldn't wish what I've gone through in life on anyone. Other than that though, you're absolutely right. GV's tuition even without the hike is no joke, and they def aren't as cheap as they think.
Yes, I forgot about endowment but I’m sure no one expected a pandemic and I’m also sure that they are still using some endowment to put this plan in place. They explain in this thread. 


https://twitter.com/gvsu/status/1284951995313528832?s=21
Probably people white knighting for people who make 6 figure salaries and do nothing.
Now now, let's give credit where it's due. They did raise tuition when it was already cost prohibitive during a crisis. That is something. /s  


Totally agree, it's ridiculous. This whole situation is ridiculous.
Got to make your non-profit university profitable like a private university.
Agree, but keep a low profile. I know in the past I've had faculty talk to me about changing majors, and missing school due to work. Somehow working in a factory is a vacation. Not all faculty are bad obviously, but there are some who've tried to defend GV's tuition in the past.
I heard the gunshots... Fuck man
I have a coworker friend who got jumped and beat up at 48 West by three Hispanic dudes... he said they pulled a gun on him and they all had knives. He came to work with a black eye and bruised rib.
Congratulations!!
Anchor up!
Welcome! Hope you join us
Dude my name is Samuel too, I I got accepted less than a week ago! Congratulations!
Contratulations! You have been admitted to Grand Valley University Special Ed Program.  Hahaha jk! Congrats :)  Let us reach for a more educated populace that we may all reach the stars.
Anchor up!
Congrats to you too fellow Samuel!
You guys should be roommates
THE RIDE DOESN'T STOP, IT'S NEVER OVER
This is like when the group chat does stats to make sense of a snow day possibly happening but pandemic version
GV really said “FUCK IT ALL GAS NO BRAKES”
At this rate im starting to think theyll never close
TO THE MOOOON 🚀🚀🚀
If you dont think you have it, don't get tested. This will increase the positivity rate. The testing site isn't safe anyways, so you'll probably get it after you get your negative test back.
we're really gonna get multiple posts like this a day and ya'll don't think we need a sticky thread to stop flooding the sub? I don't even go here and this gives me anxiety
GAS GAS GAS IM GONNA STEP ON THE GAS
We need to hit 10-20% test positivity rate for the most recent 7 days before we move to High alert and consider 2 week shutdown and/or move to online. Right now that number is around 4.2%, but it keeps rising.
Nah
Yeah, I love how the sticky is locked to two posts a day.
How can we NOT be talking about it right now? It’s a bit of pressing issue and at least we know we can go here and find solace relating to one another’s frustrations.
It does scare us, that's why were making posts about it. It's a way to vent when we feel like we have nothing else we can do, other than demand everyone else stop being an idiot, wear their masks, wash their hands, and stay away from each other, as well as demand that the school get their shit together. We express our fears through posts and others comment to show that they feel the same way. It helps us feel that even on a campus where no one appears to care, at least someone else out there gives a fuck.
Meh. It make sense in theory, but the reddit format makes it hard to execute properly. Namely, you can’t edit the title of a post. If there is a significant development you can’t put that within the title of the thread.
Almost like this is a big deal. A sticky thread will drown out the noise and do more harm than good.
I closed the last sticky post after enough people downvoted it and complained it *wasn't* helping.
Not trying to stop anyone from talking about it. I think a consolidated thread would focus the discussion rather than make it the only thing being talked about in the sub.
Well if anything, constant threads keep the board active.
Just because it is seemingly the only thing on peoples’ minds does not mean they need to forget about it.
I feel that these meetings are far more focused on marketing and generating positive PR than providing students with relevant information about plans for the fall. What has been announced like floor markings and increased cleaning are to be expected and frankly the bare minimum. Students at other schools already know if their classes are online/hybrid while we're still left in the dark.

It feels like GV is waiting until the last minute to makes these announcements so we don't have as much time to weigh our options.

I hoped that GV would have provided us with more information by now.
Agreed. I picked up on the same thing so I stopped watching them lol. I figure if information comes up that is important enough then they will just email it anyway.
Departments got in our revised schedules this week. The idea is they'll be available to students, listing the format of the class (in person, hybrid, hyflex, online synchronous, online asynchronous by mid-July). Slow process, but ultimately will be more specific information than most colleges are giving out.
It is really hard to believe their sincerity when within 5 minutes of the super scripted town hall, where none of your questions get answered, The GVSU marketing body sends out another article about how wonderful and productive the town hall was.
I’m so glad to see this post! I’m disappointed and frustrated, too. I feel like they just keep repeating the same thing over and OVER again without providing any concrete decisions or advice. 

I also am slightly offended by the apparent ease with which the administration glosses over such important issues - like dorm rooms - an outbreak will happen in the dorms. Period. Philomena mentioned that the floor could go on lock down. Okay, well what happens with the students who are sick? Who aren’t sick? With their classes? How do they get food? College life, but dorm life in particular, necessitates you are in close contact with other people - will there be a contact tracing system? 
On top of all of that, how the f*ck is campus dining going to work? 

As a closing note, I found it comical that one of the people on tonight’s panel said they were going to “wrap chairs in plastic wrap”. Seriously? That’s the length we’re going to? Just make everything online for gods sake.
I turned on the one the other day, sat for about five minutes, and then realized what this was going to be about so I proceeded to play games on my phone the whole time they blabbed about how awful the coronavirus is and how important it is to stick together and etc, etc. They said they received thousands of questions but only answered like...two? Like what happened to "We're going to answer as many as possible"?
I completely agree, if anything they have made me more anxious to return for classes!
I agree, I was especially disappointed that they disabled the chat feature when the emails they sent us previously said we would have a chance to ask questions. I did fill out the form with my questions, but none of them were even touched on.
Expect an announcement June 22nd or shortly after!
Thanks for the information! I appreciate all the work faculty have put in the past few months.
And I get it, GVSU (and every other college) sees massive revenue from housing. But the decision to make housing fully available at one student per room with seemingly no apparent plan in place is irresponsible.
Thank you for the rant I couldn't bring myself to write. I have the same concerns. Wrapping the furniture in plastic was an interesting comment. yikes
This is such a good point. I didn’t even consider what students will be doing outside of class, but you’re absolutely right. Everyone has been cooped up for months, and not to mention school abruptly ended in March. Everyone is missing their friends. As soon as we’re all back at school, the parties are going to be crazy. 

What can the admin even do about that? Police the off campus apartments like a militarized zone? None of this seems realistic to me.
Flipgrid
You forgot raising the price

Edit oh they gave us 25 dollars back per credit, guess that somehow evens out
Bluescape...
GVSU lowered the price of online classes
How do I get my refund because I paid for in persons that immidietly changed. One switched yesterday.

I was just on my banner and it all cost the same
Online classes were more expensive than in person because of both the extra training for faculty, lower student-faculty ratio, and higher use of resources. GVSU is waiving the extra fees. It's not perfect, but waiving the fee is the right thing to do
What fees are waived? I already paid my bill the very day it was open and I've heard nothing about fees being removed, and my receipt looks identical to previous ones.

Is there a link or something because I never once got emails regarding this
https://www.gvsu.edu/financialaid/additional-tuition-charges-214.htm
Near the top in a text box, "Effective with the Spring/Summer 2020 semester, Grand Valley State University will no longer assess the $25 additional tuition charge per credit hour for all Online and Hybrid courses. "
And you think that's enough of a reimbursement? 

75 dollars back a class get the fuck out. That's like throwing pennies at a panhandler 

No wonder I didn't notice that's literally nothing back in my pockets.
You have every right to complain, but you really ought to complain about the right people. The state perennially funds GVSU below what the state has set  as their minimum per-student funding. GVSU is offering state university prices while not being supported by the state
look it cant just be me like louie is just scary looking and im scared of him please if you agree let me know because my friends dont think so but theres no way its just me
Our team mascot is a fucking human. Someone dresses up as a giant foam person. What a god damned joke
absolutely baffles my mind that people actually like him
He's just a BAMF that's all ther is to it
Reminds me of community honestly lol
Haha!
Because it’s not. Nothing has changed. We aren’t being confined to our dorms— we are free to leave for food, medical attention, supplies, exercise, classes. This isn’t a quarantine if nothing’s changed. Maybe I just scrolled way too long on twitter but man people thinking this is somehow restricting students freedom has me feelin a certain way. Media please call it what it is— zombie containment unit ❤️
Yeah, as best I can tell it’s just to give law enforcement bigger teeth to shut down parties.
ALSO:  Student employees are allowed and encouraged to continue working on campus so long as they pass their self-assessment each day and are not asked to quarantine or isolate per guidance from health officials. Since offices on campus remain open and our student staff are essential to those office functions, their employment can continue. **In essence, student employees should continue working as usual and their hours or participation within their hiring department should not be changed by this new order.**
Stay at Home orders and Quarantines are not the same thing. Stay at Home orders are essentially just placing limits on non-essential gatherings (like parties, which is what other people have pointed out). It's also largely a way to limit travel (for example out of state, or to other people's homes).

In other words you're calling it the wrong thing by saying Quarantine, nor was it ever a quarantine, nor is anyone saying it is a quarantine.
I'm feeling restricted because now I can't see anyone unless I'm with one other person and we're exercising. The dentist won't let me come in because of this order. And I'd like to do SOMETHING that doesn't involve work, class, or grocery shopping for my birthday.
There ARE restrictions. My boyfriend and I are celebrating our anniversary next week and I can't go off for the weekend with him without risking fines or expulsion. Frankly it sucks, especially seeing as I'm not exposing myself very much; I go to class and I sit in my apartment and do homework.
Did you read the order?
This exactly
online class maybe ?
Sure thing shill
there are restrictions but again, how are they supposed to enforce them? wishing you and your boyfriend a happy anniversary!
Just go out and don't post it on social media lol. No one is going to know
Yes ? Otherwise I wouldn’t have posted this lol
My roommates would report it :/
Straight from the order "All GVSU students living... in Allendale Michigan will be required to "stay in place" and remain in their current designated residence (students MAY NOT return to their home address unless for emergency"

I could list others, but that part alone is INCREDIBLY restrictive, overreaching, and unrealistic.
Just lie and tell them a story. And frankly it's none of their business if you want my opinion.
I'm not supposed to go home for 2 weeks, fair, but at the same time there's nothing restrictive or different in the order. Only thing that's really being changed is that there's no more indoor dining. Not only that, but the few new rules they do have are literally impossible to enforce, how are they gonna know if I'm outside to get food or if I'm outside for the sake of being outside?
wouldnt need the order if people weren’t partying. my friend’s roommate got covid from partying and because he was asymptotic, he kept going to parties while contagious.
Thanks :D
That's the problem i'm getting at. Some of the parts of the order are overreaching, the email sent out regarding the order has implied that violation of the order is unlawful despite the order itself being contradictive. 

And that is the main issue i have, we have rules which, as you have stated, are LITERALLY impossible to enforce, yet the assertion is that breaking any of the rule in the order is breaking the law.
That's terrible... yet has nothing to do with the point i am making.
I mean a lot did change actually. Groups of only 2 or less are permitted. Previously it was 10. Face masks must be worn whenever you’re not at home, including outdoors. Previously they were required indoors only. If you are caught violating any of the new rules you can be charged with a misdemeanor and expelled. You’re literally not supposed to leave your home except for the few permitted activities. Basically, GVSU is being isolated from the surrounding community as much as possible.
But now the school has presented many contradictory statements, for instance, are the housing units on campus with 4 people in them in direct violation of the order? The answer is yes. Will it be enforced as it should, or will housing be rearranged at all? Absolutely not. 

Furthermore, what about at my job where there are two people working the front desk, when my boss comes over to tell us something, are we now in violation of the order and subject to the heavy handed punishment you have mentioned? 

In addition to this are we going to halt athletes from traveling? What about college campus tours? Oh, and our student commuters, what about them?

Is it in violation for on campus dining to have more than 2 people working simultaneously? Because according to the order, it is. 


The point i'm making is that GV/Ottawa county have presented the student body with unrealistic and unenforceable rules with very, very heavy-handed consequences. 

If this order was enforced equally across all members of campus we would have record expulsion and an overwhelming number of misdemeanors written to faculty, staff, and students.
Day 1: "1% is an overestimate"

Day 2: "2% is an overestimate"

Day 3: "3% is an overestimate"

Day 4: 3.5% plus the staff is infected. But I'm sure tomorrow they will say it's an overestimate.
I’m old enough to remember the provost proclaiming “we believe our university will be the exception.” That aged well. Regretting the tattoo of that already.
I've heard that sororities and fraternities (at least 5) are currently in quarantine too. Cool, cool.
Can we talk about the fact they’re not even telling people who get tested to quarantine until they get their results back... like what’s the point?
Still waiting on my results, been a week now
They say it's an overestimate on the site tbh. I jus pray to God it doesn't become like Iowa state.
Yep. I used to be in Greek life and can tell you for a fact it’s ripping through Greek life. A lot of my friends and people in my outer circle have it and got it from hanging at fraternity houses. Allendale is a cesspool get out while you still can lol
Yup, and GV and Ottawa Co. Health are telling all Greek that if they have 2 positive cases that all members have to quarantine for 14 days after the last positive test. If during the quarantine there’s 1 more positive test, the 2 week clock resets.
Crazy how we couldn't do any student organizations but greek life still goes on lmfaoooo
They are though? At least they did ask me to quarantine before and after my test until I came out negative and was contacted by the team...
You should be able to sign up for MyChart online [here](https://mychart.spectrumhealth.org/MyChart/signup). Your test results will appear here when they've been processed. If you are negative, you may have not gotten a call, but the info will be in MyChart no matter what. If your results aren't there I would call the GVSU COVID hotline: 833-734-0020.
I’ve heard from several students they were never told and they were only contacting people if they’re positive
Cool   
Negative result so that's decent
you’re only contacted by the team when negative if you have a confirmed case near you (my roommate was confirmed case of covid and I recieved an email to quarantine even though i was negative
Am I the only one who thinks it’s incredibly ridiculous that we have to pay to park on campus in the first place? I understand keeping lots for faculty and residential lots for those who live on campus, but there are always so many empty spots (especially in the pay to park by the Lakerstore). All I go to campus for is my job and a $480 parking pass seems ridiculous, and I can’t just leave work to go pay the dumb meter. And I don’t want to because I’m already paying tuition and working for the damn university so what the hell should I need to pay for? Taking money from students seems to be what GVSU is really good at, and this is an easy way for them to do it (permits, tickets, pay2park, etc.)

Besides the rage, I initially started this to see if anyone knows anything about the appeals process/how long it takes to hear back. There is probably a post similar to this already but I couldn’t find anything off the bat.
I was thinking about this driving in this morning. I came in a little later in the morning than usual, and whereas in past years I'd be hard pressed to find a decent spot at that time, this morning most lots were still 2/3 empty. So, the economics of the situation just don't add up. Clearly parking is a lot less scarce, so why make students pay more for it? Shouldn't it be *less* expensive? Yes, I know there's a cynical way to answer that question. 

Personally as a faculty member, who gets parking as a perk of the job, I'd be 100% in favor of *not* getting my parking for free, and having every parking tag cost a moderate amount, say $100, and *everybody* -- from commuter students to faculty to the president -- pays for their tag. I'd have to pay $100 more a year than I currently do but commuter students would pay $140 less, and that's fine with me, and the university would make the same amount of money off of it.
After seeing them raise prices for parking I started taking the bus from the Meijer. A lot easier that way
Lol they raised tuition during global economic crisis and they still gave me a parking ticket today. 40 bucks not a huge deal just the principle I guess for me.
My only in person/hybrid class is going online for a few weeks because my prof was exposed to someone with Covid, so she’s quarantining. 
If I played by the rules, I would have bought a parking pass. Way too much $$$ for just one class, and I wouldn’t have had to use it yet. Such an effing joke. Honestly, if they had a pay per park system, I’d much rather do that.
Yeah, there’s no way in hell I’m paying for a parking pass where I go to campus at most 2 times a week, for 2 hours in total.
Parking fee has only ever gone up. It was around $120/semester during my undergrad. Not only was it expensive, but the options were terrible. The only way to find a guaranteed spot was to park in the back of the furthest lot and spend 20 minutes walking to class.
GVSU receives the second-lowest amount of funding from state appropriations of all the higher education institutions in the state. Worse, [all colleges/universities are currently funded below the level they were in 2011](https://www.bridgemi.com/talent-education/coronavirus-guts-michigan-college-budgets-and-its-going-get-worse) and COVID-19 hasn't made things any better.

The reason parking has a cost attached to it (and the reason there are so many fees for students) has to do with the Michigan Legislature's attempts to, on the one hand, cut funding for higher education - while - on the other hand, trying to cap tuition by penalizing schools for raising it to cover the shortfalls. Fees don't count as tuition - so many schools hide the actual cost of tuition in the fees they collect from students.

The other reality is that schools (like cities) charge for parking to encourage the use of mass transit - that's why GVSU pays to have the Laker Line running. They don't want to pay for maintenance on parking decks or have vast parking lots taking up real estate they could be putting classrooms and facilities on.
It should definitely be cheaper.  CMU has way more parking (or at least equivalent) and our passes were never even close to what it costs at GV.  Heck, it cost me less to pay for the parking garage downtown when i went to GRCC and I was there 4 days a week.
Yeah I spent like 200 dollars to park on campus 1 day a week for under 2 hours.

I guess it'd be better if I used the library more but it feels like a fucking test tube for covid to spread
First time? GVSU is a huge commuter school, that's how they make up for not many students living on camous
To many college students that would be a big deal. It's horseshit
Tickets used to be $25 ...
No shit, but literally no one is coming to campus this year unless they absolutely need to be there. And they’re obviously finding other ways to capitalize off the student body anyway so what’s your point?
It is, definitely not even thinking about paying until I graduate lol
Point is why are you bitching about a GVSU ripping you off when you already know that’s how they do you. You really think they gonna cut anyone a break?
My point is this has been happening for years, it's a moot point. There are other pressing matters to whine about, this topic has been covered for years and should be whined about when the other more serious topics are fixed and solved. My point is you're just complaining to complain. Figure a way around it, like most students do, or bite the bullet. Part of college is learning problem solving.
I hate this argument of: well clearly they were gonna rip you off and you still attended so don’t complain.  Like, that’s the point of complaining?  If no one ever bitched and tried to change a bad or less than optimal situation then nothing would ever change for the customer or worker in this world.
This whole subreddit is full of people complaining. Some about much stupider things. Go somewhere else and be an asshole lmfao.
Fair enough. I just can’t ignore GVSU’s thirst for scamming their students. This wasn’t supposed to sound like a “me me me” sort of thing.
Only when 20% of random tests are positive, the safety resources for students are overwhelmed, and 4% of the student population is in quarantine/isolation will they *consider* remote learning and other things.
christ, you're telling me 1000s of students are going to have to get covid before they even *consider* going online? well it's been nice knowing yall
If you want the current status of where they're ranking us in these things, you can check [here](https://www.gvsu.edu/lakerstogether/current-status-of-indicators-43.htm). Keep in mind they haven't updated this in almost a week... \*eyeroll\*

 [https://www.gvsu.edu/lakerstogether/current-status-of-indicators-43.htm](https://www.gvsu.edu/lakerstogether/current-status-of-indicators-43.htm)
Does the 4% in isolation but 20% positivity rate in the “very high” category confuse anyone else? If 20% are positive, shouldn’t more than 20% be isolating due to exposure/waiting for results?
I noticed that the average 7-day of new cases is currently 46.3 (sept 10) and that’s considered very high risk yet we are only in moderate
I know him in real life and I'm still not sure what his job is. 
Hilarious, I always think the same thing on both /r/gvsu and /r/grandrapids.
I carefully curate the information that comes my way. Keywords on Google News are your friend.

I like to stay informed about what's going on around me, so I set up Google News filters for terms that are relevant to my life like "GVSU", "Grand Rapids", "Michigan", etc... you get the idea. That way, the information presented to me is all relevant and I don't have to waste time sorting through tons of other junk. 
Here is what the linked meme says in case it is blocked at your school/work or is unavailable for any reason:

#***Confused Black Man***  

>***Post Title:***  *When I see another post by /u/GVSU_Nate* 

>***Top:***  *IS THIS SHIT* 

>***Bottom:***  *YOUR JOB?* 



[Original Link^1](http://imgur.com/2v2CFyS) | [Meme Template^2](http://imgur.com/memegen/create/2v2CFyS)
I work in the venture capital field and occasionally go to class. 
I don't know why you're getting downvoted so much, your contributions are always relevant and keep this sub alive. It is the sheer volume of posts that I find funny.

Please stop downvoting the most active member of the community.
I really try to provide quality content and information that this sub would find interesting. 

As someone who has been at this university for quite a while (~200 credit hours) and been involved in various research initiatives, student government, and acted as a consultant for the university administration, I can offer a unique "behind the scenes" perspective on some things that are discussed in this sub, but apparently people aren't ready for it. 
I wondered the same thing about the downvotes. I'm starting to wonder if it's a downvote bot/mini brigade or something, since none of your comments should be that low even if you do piss a few people off.
This whole hybrid/ classes in person is just a disaster. 

Everyone will not be taking the COVID assessment seriously.

What happens if a teacher or someone in our class gets COVID ? 2 weeks quarantine ? What if that happens 2-3 times this semester ? So we have to be at home 4-6 weeks? I would love to have in person classes, but it’s simply not possible. I wish they would 
just go online like MSU just did at this point.

There will be parties. There will be people going out. Just let me do my classes online and try and get through this year safe and as fast as possible.
I'm living on campus right now and I heard someone having a party across the street last night. Things are gonna get pretty shitty quickly when this semester begins. GVSU is starting out with hybrid classes because they want to secure the tuition.
Take into account people living in fraternity/sorority houses too. That’s a lot of people packed into one space that doesn’t really stay clean. It would be a miracle for GV (or any school going in-person) to get through even half the semester.
I knew this was going to happen but I am in shock. If you're living on campus, I'd pack light.
I am legitimately scared about what’s going to happen. I’m a grad student working from home currently, but that “working” is really just sitting on the couch worrying. The closer the semester gets, the more I feel like I want to explode. 

I love GVSU and I want to get through the year, but I want myself and all my friends, classmates, and professors to be safe too. I’m prepared to beg for online courses I’m so terrified.

Edit: not to mention, the decision was made RIGHT after tuition was due, AND the week before move-in. I understand admin is in a tough spot... but they could’ve cancelled dorm life a month ago and went totally online. It’s so frustrating.
I would normally agree with you but it sucks for me because I'm in the physician assistant program and we were supposed to learn how to do women's pelvic exams, digital rectal exams, and men's health exams last semester which is now pushed to next semester. Normally we would learn these skills on standardized patients (SPs) who are paid volunteers for medical students. This obviously can't be done online! I need this training in order to go on into my clinical year so I'm worried my graduation will be pushed back. This whole thing is just a shit show for everyone.
I don’t know about you guys, but I plan on skipping the first week of class (if they even open). I talked to someone today at GVSU who said they would deny saying it, but they do not think GVSU will even open this semester. Fingers crossed. I hope (but doubt) that they have an all-online game plan.
I'm going to definitely party all the time to then get the school shamed for bringing us back and not letting us have an all online option this next year so that people could save money and stay safe during these times.
Which I understood at first, but if we aren’t on campus at all why do you have to raise it? You don’t need to hire extra staffing or hours for cleaning. You don’t need all these precautions they put in that they said was the reason for raising tuition.

Personally, I think no one can win in this situation, but I just want honest answers at this point about what’s going to happen.
I’m a delivery driver in the area, and so far within the last two weeks I’ve delivered to multiple large parties every shift. And that’s just at the complexes that have already had their move in dates. It’s going to be a disaster
I live on Pierce St.--those kids are still raging. Albeit, not as frequently.
They don't want too because they want the room and board money which is probably nearly half of their profits in a year. These bastards don't care about our safety, and yet they will still terrorize and denounce anyone who goes against or isn't for their draconian rules. I'm so done with this school because I wanted to just do online during this pandemic so I would be able to save money during this pandemic where I made less money because of reduced hours but grand valley didn't require all of their classes and professors to all have online options. So now here I am having to have gotten a place to stay in allendale when instead if this school cared about their students and giving them choices I could have saved like 4 or 5 thousand dollars from studying and taking classes at home.
I guess shrink wrapping the furniture is a lot of hard work. But I also think they are increasing it because of the COVID testing they are going to administer. They claimed they will cover the costs but I feel like that is coming out of our pockets.
That's the thing, they are actually cutting staffing and hours, reducing the number of people in the offices and terminating prof's.
What gives?
Yesterday 2.1% positivity was and “overestimate” and today’s “3.1” is an “overestimate”. GVSU is literally the only institution or locality I have ever seen so far that just disputes its own test positivity rate.
I talked about that statement with some friends and we think what they were trying to go for was a sort of "we tested high risk areas so we'll naturally get more positive results, no need to worry if you're in a regular risk area." I think it's still absolute bullshit, but I can see what they were attempting there
I just realized to, you can’t even overestimate a test positivity rate. Its literally a simple equation.
I said it in the other thread and I'll say it again: *"overestimate? ha ha gv u wild"*
I wish they'd define what they mean by "high risk clusters." Are there specific groups I should try to avoid? I work on campus, does that put me in a high risk group?
Like Trump saying the US has so many cases because we are testing too much?!
Feels a lot like they are collecting bad data on purpose so when the numbers are reported they can instantly dismiss them.
I agree. I see the sentiment, but I don’t buy that it’s a gross overestimate of total student/staff/faculty case positivity.
They gave a reasonable explanation for why they think it is an overestimate. Why do you think they’re wrong?
The high risk clusters are people identified as anything other than "random" (except on week 8/24, testing of on- and off-campus residents before classes began was added after the testing plan was developed and the high risk were identified - initially there were going to be no pre-class testing) on this schedule of testing: [https://www.gvsu.edu/lakerstogether/testing-calendar-38.htm](https://www.gvsu.edu/lakerstogether/testing-calendar-38.htm)

For example, the Senior Leadership Team (Prez, Provost, Vice Prezzies) who have no contact with students and all virtual meetings are listed as high risk with weekly testing.
Like they’re also supposed to be doing 1500 random sample a week. One would think that should influence the overall positivity rate to be more accurate.
So if they keep their current testing standards do they just always say the number is an overestimate? Are we permanently overestimating? Seems illogical.
Welcome week just ended so I think the true prevalence is much higher and will rise daily as class continues
That's what gets me too. [GV told local media](https://wwmt.com/newsletter-daily/more-than-100-gvsu-students-test-positive-for-covid-19) they "purposefully administered \[tests\] to higher-risk areas like living centers." However, the majority of cases have been for "near campus" students, not on campus students. Unless GV considers off campus housing "living centers."

I may just be wrong, but the claims Grand Valley is making doesn't seem to match the data they're producing.
If you want to get a more accurate stat on positive cases, you would have to test a truly random sample of students. But unless you have unlimited testing capacity, then you should be focusing on testing people who are at higher risk, but that skews the results. So until all of the tests are random, then the result will always be an overestimate, but for good reason.
They also are very good at playing the GV public institution/privately owned living center split. What happens down W Campus Dr is none of GV’s concern—and “no one should be concerned because the high risk places, where students must live for many social and academic purposes, are high risk so yeah peeps got COVID, don’t worry. We opened without the capacity to monitor this awfully debilitating and virulent virus, so all our statistics are actually meaningless...whoopieeee laker up baby.”
I think the issue of GV owned vs privately owned is less about concern and more about the ability to do anything. People in the "near campus" housing have, by all reports, not been social distancing, and GV has no authority to enforce anything there.

And if folks don't wear masks and social distance, it's not just the statistics, but everyone else's effort that are meaningless. I really don't get the whole anti-mask thing. It's like, "We should open everything back up soon! So I will behave in a way that will make that impossible!"
Yeah but this has been the story all summer. Nothing else was ever going to happen no matter how wishful the thinking. 

IMO, opening in person classes was negligent and irresponsible. 

You’re right, there is no legal authority GV has over the private living centers. And the legal authority that resides in the county and the state governments has been largely unresponsive (I’m told Ottawa County has highest rate in the state?). 

Therefore, why tread the waters through this blame game? If COVID-19 isn’t enough to garner mutual respect it cannot be humans to blame but structures that demand humans to act immortal. 

I expect that local residents and citizens writ large will lose more trust in higher education. Colleges are blaming students and students are left with too few options. 

Just take in the fact that the first, and only, stimulus exempted dependents between the ages of 18-24. But that money wouldn’t have helped this particular situation. It’s a historical negligence that produces the ignorance of the now.
I agree with most of what you said. And I do not speak for GVSU, so take this with a grain or two of salt. I do know people intimately involved in pandemic planning at the university, though, so take that for what it is worth.

I am not blaming students. You mention systems, and I agree. There are systems in place that have made this situation much worse than it could have been. I will point out, however, that those systems are made by, and made up of, people.

So, I don't blame students, but I do blame people: 

* people who called and wrote the university saying they would go elsewhere unless classes were face to face and on schedule;
* people who called reasonable measures, such as masks and limits on social activity, tyrannical;
*people who pressured businesses, colleges, and schools to open and open too quickly;
* people who have voted, repeatedly, to systematically reduce investment in public education for decades, making it impossible for public universities to exist except on the backs of students;
* people who have called a global pandemic a hoax, no big deal, exaggerated.

University administration is not perfect. It is made up of people, too. The administration is not handling things perfectly. But at least they are trying, and I promise you they care and try to put students first, sometimes at the expense of faculty, staff, and even administrators.

This is a no-win situation, not of your making, not of the university's making. Maybe opening was a foregone conclusion, I don't know. I don't personally think it was.

I know that opening face to face was not the only idea on the table, I know that the planning has been going on since March, and I know that GVSU has done everything they can to make opening safer, and everything they can to make a transition to all-online possible and as seamless as they can.
Opening was a foregone conclusion, end of story. 

I don’t really get your point. You want to honor your friends with charitous fallibility informed by reason and the others as completely outside the realm of reason. 

Good luck with that. 

The administration are the fore-bearers of the structures that dominate student life. Sure, the local governances precede their jurisdiction. However, with affordable and plentiful campus housing maybe just maybe their jurisdiction would have substance. 

Yet, time and again the administration gives no shit about affordability. Instead of building intentionally affordable housing they invest in expansionary projects designed to push enrollment and tuition. 

Instead of making food on campus affordable and democratized they remain beholden to Aramark for pricing and options. 

Yeah whatever, people are good and people are bad. Good people do not reside in one circle and bad people in another, that sort of defensive reasoning is counter productive at best and antithetical at worst.
Here are three points, from simplest to hardest.

First, vote. This won't fix everything, but it's a necessary first step.

Second, organize, because these systems you are attacking have taken decades, centuries to entrench, and their builders and defenders are not going away. And they already know how to fight. Their best tool is to sow division. 

Third, build coalitions rather than attack those who are fighting the same fight as you. This is what I thought you were going for by decrying a blame game. Maybe I was wrong. I hope not.
You literally sowed division by taking on citizens and the working class. I am building coalitions with the powerless. 

You can do whatever you want.
Yeah, that must be it. I'll go tell my friends that I have literally marched with that I can't be part of the revolution anymore.
I think you misunderstand. 

Far more people should belong to the so-called revolution. You seem to see the actions of people that have voted in ways you have problematized not as a symptom of a larger issue but as the issue itself. You have portrayed students and voters as the problem rather than accepting that many different realities manifest themselves simultaneously, all equally ‘real’. Though I presume we both certainly prioritize the egalitarian manifestations, none of us truly have the capacity to discern with infallibility.

Instead of humanizing people and the working class (including students who are intended to become profit engines themselves) you set about to humanize the mis-management class that insulates and reinforces its legitimacy and the status quo at every turn. 

Power is in the hands of the “powerless”. Do whatever you please, think whatever you want, but nothing will change if ‘the others’ are not seen as equally viable and dormant forces truly capable of shifting tides. 

This is another convenient caveat of the administration at Grand Valley. They will not open the door to grass roots student organization because it would threaten the power of the existing bureaucracy. Such would be illegitimate and shuck-able, immature and dismissed. 

The student body knows this, the best students leave and others know better than to come, the rest retain a sense of nihilistic and libidinal strivings and/or depression. 

I don’t want to act like you and I are all too different. I do in fact think that criticizing the administration, no matter how many friends I have involved, is the best way to nurture an empathetic space and bring attention to a common goal.
Wow, you are reading so much into so little. But let that go. Let me try impress upon you the importance of humanity, of empathy, and of nuance.

Dehumanizing any person, or worse, any class, weakens your movement. The ruling class are people, too, governed by their appetites and fears. One secret of great evil is its mundanity. It doesn't require malice to visit evil on another, only indifference. If you can't see the humanity of your opponent, then you are the worst type of revolutionary, one who would remove one form of tyranny to replace it with another.

Next, I _am_ critical of the administration. Criticizing does not require dehumanizing, though, nor does it require imputing motive. If you assume you know another person's motives, you will make mistaken assumptions about their future behavior. Furthermir, to be effective in bringing about change, criticism must recognize positive as well as negative. You must know an opponent's strengths and exploit them, because their weaknesses will always be guarded.

Finally, we need to move beyond dualistic ideas and see that people are people, that the common people are as fallible as the powerful. Grassroots can easily fall prey to populism. And yes, the "powerless" have the true power, but dualistic naivety will always be a weak point that a wedge can be driven into.
Is an institution the same as a citizen
Campus closed tomorrow Lakers
This is absolutely wild
We... did it?
I'm going stir crazy
does this mean I get  achievement on Steam for this?
Wow! This is crazy.
Girls on Twitter are going wild the ball was cancelled 
The cabin fever is real
My high school teachers: Universities never cancel for snow days.

Grand Valley: uNiVeRsItIeS NeVeR CaNcEl fOr sNoW DaYs
thanks i hate it
People kept calling the parking office all day asking if we were closed tomorrow. Lol now we have our answer
I have to ask current students: are any of your professors freaking out because you missed a whole week? Are they emailing you more reading and assignments to make up for it? With how few class periods there are for some courses, I feel like missing 2 or 3 of them could send a meticulously-planned course wildly off track.

Side note, my office cancelled 4 of 5 days this week (they'd only cancelled one other day in my previous 4 years there), so I feel like I still got to experience this magical moment with you.
Wow, getting two days off in a row back in 2014 was said to be some kind of record
Dam why did I have to Graduate in december? All my roommates get the week off and here i am going to work
BAck iN mY dAy we used to have to travel across campus in the snow... (jkjk).

Enjoy yourselves!
Achievement unlocked! 24 hour gaming marathon
In my program, due dates stayed the same. I feel like they're scrambling right now to try and get all the subject matter though. I'm not sure of the precedent on this and it's unheard of to me. 
All things in moderation holmes.

&#x200B;
Does anyone find it troubling that the head of the Covid team in upper administration is the VP for Finance (a PhD in business) instead of a health or student services expert?
Hahaha oh my GOD everything about this is distressing
Thats such an ironic foreshadowing of whats to come....
This is going to be such a clusterf\*ck.
Wait, really?

That...

...

 *groans*
Qualified to lead *a* team, sure. The best expertise to lead *this* team that needs to consider health and safety as a priority over finances, not a chance.
northcentral sound made up
The team handles "Tracking, Technology, Testing, Tracing, Isolation and Quarantine"


"The VAT monitors the health and safety in the Grand Valley community as well as the surrounding region, and will report to the Senior Leadership Team.  Spectrum Health Infectious disease specialist Habiba Hassouna, M.D. serves as a consultant."

There is no reason he, or the rest of the team is any less qualified than a medical doctor to do what their stated responsibilities are. Plus, they already have an infectious diseases MD helping them anyway.
An infectious disease MD consultant at the table is certainly a good thing, but what exactly does the VP for Finance bring to the table other than concern for the institution's finances? The president selecting him as the lead of the team shows where her top priority is. The lead of the team, the one making the final recommendations to the president, should be an expert in health or student services if those were the university's top priority here.
yassss
GVSU is in full budget crisis right now, just like the rest of education. There were big costs associated with moving courses online, stepping up cleaning & sanitation, etc and enrollments are reportedly way down as people put off courses or even put their educations on hold for a year to wait out the pandemic.

GVSU adjunct faculty got an email  explaining that between the lower enrollment meaning some sections were getting cut and the full-time faculty being asked to increase their teaching loads that there would be way, way fewer adjunct faculty in the upcoming academic year.

I'm not saying that you're wrong. Distance learning isn't what you signed up for when you decided to attend GVSU and now you're being asked to pay the same amount (or even more) for less. I'd be angry too. But from what I'm seeing/hearing, unless schools have massive endowments to fall back on they're not in a position to be able to cut anyone any breaks right now.
I’d sign it right away. Online classes aren’t for everyone. They will likely be taking away 75% of our recourses that we’ve previously paid for in tuition.
You need to get on the Facebook pages for this to get any traction. Not enough users on this sub
I fully agree that students are not getting what they originally signed up for. I will point out that you are barking up the wrong tree. 

You need to write petitions and send them to your state and federal legislators.

GVSU is a state supported institution, but barely more than 3% of GVSU's 2019-2020 budget is direct government support.

(There is indirect support in the form of financial aid that students then pay to GVSU. If you count that, it's an additional 17%. But that is still coming from students.)

So, yes, get those petitions going, but send them to the folks who can do something about it.
Why don't the administrators just take a 50% pay cut? Nobody needs to make 300k+ a year living in Ottawa / Kent County when that money is largely being subsidized by loans (which most students don't fully understand).
Anyone have any language to add into the petition that could be helpful?
Yes, they are in a crisis no doubt. However, I think its this sort of thinking that is allowing students to be used as the financial crutch and "guinea pigs" for safety protocols. My first 100% online semester was a disaster. We are months in and most of my professors have not adequately adjusted to online in any way that justifies the same price as in-person graduate credits. The fact that I have a bill right now, but don't even know when or how even these classes are to be delivered is simply irrational. We can be flexible, but we can't be the university's piggy bank. Raising tuition every year and now crawling back to us for a bailout is insulting. When a school spends two decades spending money it doesn't have on shiny new buildings, marketing, and sports facilities and becomes dependent on tuition money to cover things other than core educational processes (profs, supplies, technology) there should be consequences.
Do you have a source for the adjunct faculty getting that email? That’s actually fucked
I am (was? Still waiting to hear because of all the cuts...) an adjunct professor at GVSU so I received it. I doubt it was published anywhere.
As a former athlete and similar thinker I’m very much on your side about the school being a business, they fucked up in a business sense by expanding too fast and ruining the experience for some. I’m not pissed or anything but I was there 12-17 and the school I left was completely different than the school I enrolled at so maybe the expansion was too fast? Idk I’m high
do you think they are going to be online in the fall or have in person classes?  IDK how they are going to manage in person without having some kind of outbreak issue arising
You might be high but not wrong. I did undergrad from 2011-2015. Came back in 2018 and allendale is just completely different.
I don’t really know. I think they’re going to push “hybrid” really hard but they still have to figure out what that really looks like. 

Communication hasn’t been great. I presume that’s because they don’t know or they don’t want to commit to a plan yet.
Hope he rots in a cell
I am far from surprised
Its pretty awful that people started a rumor like that... for attention or whatever other reason that's not something to lie about.
When I first went on Reddit to see if anyone had anymore info, all I saw was rumors and speculation being thrown around. One person said immediately that there was 3 rape/murders around campus and got everyone riled up. 

I hate social media for this reason. If they aren’t facts, keep em to yourself
Let me just say I’m one semester away from graduating and that I would transfer if I could. I’m incredibly frustrated at how GV is handling COVID. 

I have one in-person class for 2 hours a week, downtown at Eberhard. 

Today someone needed to borrow my car for a bit, so after class I waited on the second floor to get picked up for about an hour. I was so mad by the time I got picked up that I was practically crying. 

I watched MANY of people in the office on the second floor walk around mask-less. Some of them coughing. Heard some of them joking about it. Saying “Maybe I DO have COVID, haha!”
 
I can’t imagine what it is like in Allendale. I’m so sorry for those of you stuck on campus who don’t feel safe. I emailed my professor ASAP and told them I’m no longer coming to any in-person class. I can’t do it.  Luckily he is working something out with me (and is working on giving a virtual option for everyone), but I feel horrible for anyone who is not that lucky. Some of our professors deserve the world and more. 

With all that being said, does anyone know where to report these kinds of things? I searched on the GV website and found squat. I would really appreciate any help. I feel like I have to report this. Thanks. 

Stay safe and wear a mask.
You may submit a report through the Office of Student Conduct and Conflict Resolution [here](https://www.gvsu.edu/osccr/file-a-report-22.htm). You can also read more about various reporting procedures, depending on the situation, by [clicking here](https://www.gvsu.edu/cms4/asset/83475697-A2A7-745E-46AB3B4B1AAB8D9A/reporting_student_covid-19_violations_08.21.20_002_-_ada_accessible.pdf).

If you have specific questions, comments or concerns that you'd like to share, it's best to share them at [virusactionteam@gvsu.edu](mailto:virusactionteam@gvsu.edu).

EDIT: Also would add a pro tip: if you are looking for something on GV's website and are struggling to find it, you may have better luck Googling "GVSU \_\_\_\_(whatever you need)"
It blows my mind they opened up the gym man. I really wanted to go work out but I just dont trust the people here and it's just a bad idea for the gyms to be open regardless
Interestingly enough, if the office isn’t open to the general public beyond the reception area, office staff are not required to wear masks unless they work at the reception desk or cannot maintain proper social distancing measures: https://www.gvsu.edu/lakerstogether/face-covering-policy-27.htm
Thank you so much for the info!
Happy to help!
My older brother found a black thong in his laundry hamper the first time he washed his clothes in Hills circa 2013. He sent a picture to our family group chat of him holding them up lol
which floor??
the second floor is so confusing. lol
Figured I’d post this in here to help everyone out. Does it seem like to anyone else that GV made this deadline date a lot sooner than semesters in the past? I swear we had till like mid September last year to drop classes for a 100% refund.
I don't think the date has changed. It's always been you have the first week to change your classes.
Always the first week and it always flies by where I bet most people get that partial refund in the second week. Been there before!
Add/drop deadline is usually the 5th week of classes, that might be what you were thinking. The 100% and 75% refund dates seem to be around the same time as previous years.
they shouldve pushed it back a week for the shitshow that is online classes and how they work. in person its so much easier to tell but once everythings online/hybrid its up in the air
You’re probably right but good lord I feel like it sneaks up on you
Oh for sure. I feel like this first week has been a shit show.
Yeah idk about you but I’ve already had 15+ assignments this week on top of readings. It was either I drop a class or have a horrendous semester
The 2020 election will be one of the most important in history. Make sure you are registered to vote, and that your vote is counted! 

In Michigan, you must register to vote online by October 19th, or up to November 3rd at City Hall (bring proof of address if you're doing this - a photo ID, utility bill, paystub, lease/mortgage, or insurance card are all valid). You can register online at https://www.michigan.gov/sos/0,1607,7-127-1633_8716_8726_47669-175878--,00.html.  If you wish to register in person, the address is 6676 Lake Michigan Drive, Allendale, MI.

You can also request a mail-in ballot via this link: https://mvic.sos.state.mi.us/Home/VoteAtHome/#online. Do so as soon as possible to make sure your ballot arrives and is sent back on time. Your ballot must be received by Election Day, November 3rd. Send it back as soon as possible, or drop it off in person at your [clerk's office](https://mvic.sos.state.mi.us/Clerk) or at a [ballot dropbox](https://www.michigan.gov/documents/sos/Ballot_Dropbox_Locations_697191_7.pdf).

If you mail your ballot, you can track it here: https://mvic.sos.state.mi.us/Voter/Index

Please let me know if you have any questions!
Register and vote for change!!!
Jorgensen do be lookin sweet tho 🤘🏼
trump 2020
trump 2020
I’m an out of state student (Illinois). I requested a mail in ballot, but I have changed my mind and want to vote in person instead. Can I vote here instead of by mail if I register in Michigan? I voted in the Illinois primary.
trump 2020
I believe it's dependent on your permanent address - aka what's on your license/state id
I just don’t think I can be convinced by their “town hall” meetings - which seem more like corporate PR pandering. I really, *really* hope that I am proven wrong and that everything opens up no problem - but look around.

The nation is in its largest spike currently with the GR area leading the way for Michigan, and grand valleys solution thus far to an outbreak is to shut down a few areas of a dorm? By the time anyone notices or cares, half the school will be infected. I personally see GV open until October until it’s moved all online. Again, I really hope I’m wrong!

I guess my point is I want more concrete planning in place and details by the administration than a few scripted town hall meetings. What’s going to happen when several students are sick? Will they close campus? Think about the smaller things: campus dining, book store, everyone on bus lines who need to commute in winter, just walking through kirkhof, etc.

It’s ok for the administration to say “we don’t know.” But at this rate, what’s the likelihood they actually open campus and stay open all year? Should they be planning more on everything at least being hybrid? Enough with the scripted talks.

That’s just my two cents.
I know of quite a few people that really agree. GV has really dropped the ball. As students I feel we’re still left in the dark when other schools have done so much. We haven’t had an official statement on class adjustments.
We couldn't wear masks for three months, now we'll have to wear them for two years. Great. Any hope of me having a social life is out the door at this point.

It's gonna be a miracle if we fucking go back.
I thinks GV is afraid that if they say they're switching to all online before the add drop period ends they are gonna loose a lot of students that don't want to do online only (myself included). So they are going to wait until mid October to early November to switch to all online which would mean that most people have already payed part or all of their tuition and the drop with a refund date has past so GV won't loose money if a bunch of people drop online classes.
I’m in a graduate program at GVSU on the health campus and we’ve already been told that we are going all online for the fall except for three in person lab days. It sounds like they’re doing more planning for the Allendale campus and less for the downtown and health campuses
I've been pessimistic about an in-person fall semester since we first went online. The past few weeks have made me certain it not a matter of if we go back online, it's when.

If schools with near infinite resources like Harvard and MIT are going fully online, what hope do we have?

I will say this. If you want a chance of in-person classes, you have to wear a mask. You have to social distance. And you have to make everyone around you do the same.
I’m a senior and I’ve been informed everything but lab classes (hybrid) are online. Hope this helps!
I have been waiting on housing since I do not know if my classes will be moved online, but I am running out of time and would appreciate any sort of communication from GV.

I get they want to wait to try and force kids to go along with their plan because they already will have paid by then, but it is pretty scummy IMO to keep everyone in the dark like this, ESPECIALLY in mid July.
I'm an incoming grad student and I haven't been told anything about my classes or housing. It's kind of frustrating since if I can't stay at GV's housing I need to start looking for my own accomodations.
I have been applying to jobs around MI that involve planning and building online learning experiences. I have not seen any job postings at GVSU. A lot of schools are expanding in this capacity right now, but not GVSU, at least for external applicants.
My Education & Tuition > Getting Sick
Exactly. I understand nobody has gone through this before - but say that and acknowledge students anxiety. Shrink wrapping furniture won’t mater. I love athletic events, but having student athletes train and compete and then go to class? No thanks.
Not sure if this helps make others feel better. I attend a big 10 university for grad school after being a GV grad. Although we got an official email saying classes were in-person the beginning of June. A majority of classes of since been moved online and we just got an email saying we won’t know if our classes are online or in person until late July. Also anyone living in in campus housing at my university have been left somewhat in the dark after being told “we will not uphold your room assignments we will try to keep roommates together but it’s not promised”. It’s not just GV that’s leaving students in the dark it’s many schools likely because they don’t know what the best decisions are and the pandemic keeps changing
Tuition paying parents agree.
Exactly this. The ambiguity of it all is super intentional.
My graduate program said everything was online except for ONE lab in October
You’ve hit on the problem when you mention Harvard and MIT, though. Those are schools that a) can financially handle the loss from housing and decreased enrollment and b) always have a waitlist if enrollment drops. The vast majority of colleges and universities can’t afford a bunch of people taking a gap year. You’d see massive departmental and college closures overnight. They are stuck in an impossible situation (though that doesn’t mean GVSU or any school is making the best possible choice).
And stop protesting.
I’m a senior and nobody has really communicated any firm answers yet.
One of my classes isn't a lab class. But its currently hybrid.....
How did you find out? I'm a senior as well but in psych.... Which has the tiniest classrooms I swear

I feel really left in the dark as someone who only came back to school in the spring semester
I'm in the same boat. Really banking on people looking to sublease.
So I had contacted housing for this reason and they said that only freshman are able to view picks and choose rn, if you're not a freshmen and u need different accommodations you have to call the office this coming Monday bc thats when staff is returning. So its best to send a email and call.
I did my undergrad at gv and I’m a first year grad student just like you. I understand your questions may be totally corona-centric, but if you need advice on where to live off campus or have general questions, PM me and I can try to help!
GVSU, like many schools, is currently on a hiring freeze.
GVSU has the eLearning and Emerging Technologies group which has been working on online learning experiences before the pandemic.  Since we went online in Winter, they have been working with faculty across the University to develop online learning experiences.  Faculty have also been participating in a variety of workshops related to developing hybrid and online experiences.  We were lucky that we already had the group established rather than having to build it from the ground up during the pandemic.  https://www.gvsu.edu/elearn/elearning-team-2.htm
I mean you do you. Myself; I’m 4 classes away from graduating. However after an emergency major open heart surgery - I can’t get sick. I really have no choice in not returning this year.
I cannot imagine sending my kid out in this pandemic, and paying more to boot
The ambiguity is not intentional, although I'll admit it might look that way. Going to a mix of online and in-person is an attempt to be flexible and provide what people are asking for.

There are absolutely people saying they will not attend unless classes are face-to-face and others saying they will not attend unless they can be completely online. There is no way GVSU can please everyone. 

It may be hard to believe, but GVSU works hard to be there for students. For example, it may surprise you to learn that GVSU has a program where students with unexpected hardships can have tuition forgiven, and in the meetings where those decisions are made, the policy is to look for reasons _to_ forgive tuition. I doubt that is a common policy for universities.

I recognize that it sucks not to get what you are expecting and what you signed up for. Faculty, staff, and administration are not getting what they signed up for, either. Right now, there are across the board as well as targeted budget cuts, a hiring freeze, no cost of living increases for employees, and increased mandatory teaching loads for faculty. So, as a faculty member, I am doing more for the same money. I understand the frustration.

And yes, GVSU is making some decisions based on financial realities, like only getting 3% of their budget from state support (and it's less every year). But to say that GVSU is doing things in a way that is intentionally ambiguous is inaccurate and, imo, unfair
I want to echo you both and say my PI told me likely all graduate student courses will be online with exceptions for labs. It would be really nice though if we could get that information from the school instead of hearing it through the grapevine and having to wait until mid July to hear about scheduling. They may even cancel courses and shift times and we won’t know until then.
You're right that schools like Harvard can more likely afford an enrollment drop than most other schools. However, by following that argument, is the implication that Harvard isn't trying as hard for an in-person fall semester as other school? I don't think I believe that.

Schools are definitely in an impossible position that frankly could have been avoided if we had a national response to the Coronavirus. Instead, our leadership continues to live in denial.
There has been pretty much zero evidence that outdoor protests have been a significant source of spread.
If you go on my banner it’ll show you if the classes have been switched to online or hybrid.
Same for my bio 107
I checked banner
Thanks for reaching out and sharing the link :)
And yet, other parents are calling GVSU and demanding face-to-face instruction or they will send their kids elsewhere. There are no perfect solutions and GVSU is trying to be as flexible as possible. 

FYI, before the pandemic, online classes cost _more_ than face to face. GVSU has eliminated those extra fees
Unintentional ambiguity in regards to classes is fine, I hear you. 

But what about the ambiguity surrounding housing, dining, and school events? There have been rudimentary plans in place including fewer seating options that are made farther apart, one person per room arrangements in the dorms, and closure of select dining areas - but what happens when there is an outbreak in the dorms? Do all of those students need to go on lockdown? How will they get food, or go to class? What happens when a student or member of faculty dies? How will off campus parties be policed? 

There are a multitude of things that have either not been addressed properly or have not been addressed at all, and that I think is intentional.
Than how are people getting corona from the beach? Why were right wing protesters condemned but left wing BLM protesters are praised. I don't buy that corona doesn't spread in outdoor in large  crowds. Tons of people were not wearing masks when they protester and rioted in GR.
Can’t view your schedule as they have registration locked. Besides, all classes will have to be moved online anyway sooner or later
Yikes. Those parents are nuts
Most people at recent protests were wearing masks. Minnesota public health is known to be very robust, and they found that there was low spread among the protests. 

On the other hand, very few people in other places, like beaches or restaurants, wear masks. Beaches are definitely not the main spread, but I don't know that anyone is saying they are. Hope that answers your question.
You are entitled to your feelings, but those feelings don’t change the fact that current evidence does not support the idea that the BLM protests have been a significant infection vector.
I was able to get on my banner yesterday.
No they were not. Look at photos and videos. I am talking about Grand Rapida not Minnesota. I believe the media is just ignoring the spread from one type of protest and deflecting to other causes. Media didn't even mention the protests and covid in the same story for weeks. Beaches are being blamed for spreading the virus even though it is outside . Let's be honest people are hypocrites when it comes to protests.
Hmm I still can’t
I mean there was that time an armed milita stormed the statehouse, without masks, screaming at eachother how masks would kill them and were unconstitutional. Y’all forget that ever happened but lol what are black rights? 🙄
Nobody stormed a state house. I don't think you know what that means. Lots of people were prot4sting outside or in their cars. What do black rights have to do with this? My point is if it is wrong for right wing people to protest it is wrong for left wing people to protest.
They made a whole fucking event because of it! 


https://www.lansingstatejournal.com/story/news/2020/05/20/michigan-protest-pictures-operation-haircut-lansing-capitol/5229182002/
Awesome!
I can't wait to see this! 
fuckkkk i have a 6-9
How do you get tickets?
Very excited for this! 

/u/Foucaultsusedcondoms, I'm assuming that, based on this post, you're a member of the GVSU Secular Alliance - What is the difference between the GVSU SA (Secular Alliance) and the GVSU CFI (Center for Inquiry)? 

Which one should I join? 
Insane! Second year in a row with a really big name coming to GVSU. Well done to whoever got this going!
skip that shit!
God damnit, you just made me realize that I too have a 6-9. If this isn't a valid excuse for skipping, I don't know what is. 
I would ask at the information desk.
They are one and the same. Used to be GVSA, now going by GV CFI. There is only one. Meetings are Monday at 9 in KC and there's a Facebook group if you'd like to see what's happening. 
Actually, there's no point doing that for a few weeks yet, as 20-20 hasn't begun ticketing procedures. 

Edit: In a few weeks to a month that's where you would pick up your tickets though.
Are tickets available for alumni?
By Kirkhof, the library, and the clocktower: HUGE photos and a HUGE projector showing graphic images. I recommend if this stuff triggers you in any way, to walk any other way to avoid this.
They're also handing out pamphlets on every side walk intersection
Seems like it’s worse every year. When I was a freshmen they were just preaching, by the time I was a senior they were actively approaching people. Lucky as I, resting bitch face and my “bitch I will cut you” eyes (and probably also the fact I was asian American which back then was pretty much nonexistent) saved me a ton of convos with these guys. 

Just remember they can say whatever they want since it’s their right to free speech, but if they actively grab you or touch you or any other bodily contact, it’s a violation and you can file a complaint with GV and also the police.
I passed by then earlier today and I just felt so sad and angry. One of my friends is a tour guide for GV and had to explain to their tour what was happening with the flags last week. Like this is what people are going to think of GV now!! It's terrible! And for all the people triggered by this, I'm so so sorry you have to deal with this on our campus. GV supports you no matter what choices you've had to make, and these people out there are not GV.
theyre still doing that shit? damn, they were doing that when i was there like 5 years ago.
It was probably the Genocide Awareness Project (GAP) if it was those big graphic images.  I saw them at GV during my master's and at Oakland University during my undergrad.  They go all over the place doing that shit.  They're hypocritical as fuck too.  

They kinda stumble over their message if you ask them: "If that fetus you save comes out as gay or transgender, would you love them unconditionally and accept them for who they are?"  I did it once to them and after about 10-15 seconds of stuttering they went "oh...of course, we love those people," in the most unconvincing tone you've ever heard.

They only care about the babies they save as long as they believe and live the same way they do.
It’s the issue of free speech, but I think having images is too graphic. Shout all you want, but don’t show images to “get your point across”. People already have their minds made up.
Has anybody thought of a counter protest or anything like it? At this point of the year too many students are stressed about finals and having these graphic images plastered across some of the busiest areas just seems detrimental to their learning.
Was angry enough last week when they had the whole cemetery thing set up. This is even worse. Hope people complain to the university about this and prevent it from happening in the coming years.
Free speech, they have the right to do it. It’s a moral issue for them and everyone should respect that.
The good 'ole death glare always saves me
I saw the flags but didn't know what was going on... What were they for?
Exactly, and like someone else pointed out, there are prospective students taking tours there and having protesters there is one thing, but having graphic images can make people on a tour be really put off to GV, even if it’s an outside group doing the protesting. Not to mention that everyone in this school has had different experiences and backgrounds, and those images could bring up past trauma or negative experiences for them. And the counseling center is right by Kirkoff so again, someone who could be dealing with past trauma could be affected by those images. It’s such a tricky thing cause they are entitled to free speech, but the images take it too far in my opinion.
I saw someone post about the possibility on Facebook, but others say we shouldn't do anything because the group is filming students to see if they get a reaction they can use against us. It's probably best to simply wait until they're gone at this point, unfortunately. From what I saw, they'll only be here today.
I agree the display is ostentatious but I don't agree the solution to be simply asking the university to prevent it from happening.  It's a slippery slope when we start censoring and deplatforming people's free speech we don't agree with.
While I agree that their displays and especially the graphic images are upsetting, I think the most the university could do is to limit what days they protest on so that it’s not interrupting important events (like the weddings that sometimes happen in the chapel by Kirkoff) or on days when prospective students are touring the campus so that the protesting doesn’t detract from their experience of GV. Idk if that’s possible or not though
I can’t find the article at the moment but will edit in a link when I do. This definitely won’t happen anytime soon. In fact they just (this year) allowed protests to occur anywhere on campus where it used to just be by the clock tower.
Edit: [the article in question ](https://www.google.com/amp/s/www.woodtv.com/amp/news/ottawa-county/anti-abortion-group-tests-trumps-order-at-gvsu/1909997307)


[the reason ](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/president-donald-j-trump-is-improving-transparency-and-promoting-free-speech-in-higher-education/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=ios_app)
Yes, which is why OP said to avoid it if it is triggering to you. I know pro-lifers who definitely wouldn’t want to see those images.
This article from the lanthorn explains it pretty well: http://www.lanthorn.com/article/2019/04/free-speech-campus-column 
Basically, an anti abortion protest.
Ahhh ok. Hopefully they are done after today, students have way too much to worry about these next couple weeks.
Agreed. That is, we should not be taking away their right to free speech because we disagree with what they are saying.  It's sad that some people think this way.
Their opinions are less the problem. The issue is the rhetoric and the images they had up. We have to consider students who may be triggered by images with that level of graphic detail.

While I feel they're misogynists trying to guilt women into complying with their agenda, I'm not opposed to them handing out pamphlets or giving talks on campus.
See my above comment: it used to be that way but isn’t anymore due to the president of the United States, it’s not a GV thing that they can just fix. :(
Right
Faculty here, I love ~~old fart~~ experienced students. Even if some people's definition of "old" still means they could be my own kids! Y'all bring a lot to the table and it's always great to have you aboard.
I'm on my way! GVSU was my start, then life happened...feels good to try again.
what if you're an alumni who would love to rewind time and do it all over again? man i miss that campus.
Wow guys, what a great job!! I'm so proud of you all!

...

OK, but for real, they can't just stay quiet about this. When is faculty going to speak on this?
Oh for the love of Pete

How many more cases do we need to go completely online? Admin has lost their damn minds
LAKERS ARE LEADERS!!!!! So proud.
We're gonna shut down by Friday lmao
I don’t know why everyone in this sub is acting like the administration is ignoring COVID, they know that there will be cases and they know that  increased testing will lead to more cases. The article literally goes on to say there isn’t much cause for alarm and “Weighmink says the increase in cases appears to be because of widespread targeted testing on college campuses, not because of an increase in community spread. GVSU reports that 3.32% of tests of students and staff have come back positive so far. The positivity rate for the state as a whole was 3.4% as of Friday.”
From what I've heard, faculty from GVSU and various other universities sent a letter to Whitmer asking her to make colleges go online. No idea if that is going to happen, but there are faculty members that are speaking about this.
Remember when the President said that GVSU is gonna be an inspiration to other universities in the country? We are on our way there. Number one university in the state with the most cases! /s

You talked too soon President Mantella.
From the dashboard, it would take ~10% of tests to come back positive before moving into “Stage 3” resulting in a “consideration to move classes online for 2 weeks”. 

Definitely trying very hard to keep it in person.
Except for the fact that the 3.32% only measures the prevalence of Covid cases in people they’ve tested. That matters a bunch when you think about how many of the student/faculty/staff population that have yet to be tested or are asymptomatic. So that 3.32% needs to be taken with a LARGE grain of salt. It’s not extensive or complete.
I’ve gotten 2 emails in the past 24h from classmates with COVID and it’s only been a week.
I can't find the 10% number... there it is. Holy Crap.

I do notice this on moderate level, though. "Implement remote instruction and work options in units/areas impacted as needed" So where is that happening now?
TEN PERCENT?
But the random testing is designed to sample the population, GVSU is doing random testing to get an idea of what the campus as a whole looks like. There’s no reason to assume that the people who haven’t been tested have COVID at a higher rate than those who have.
Sorry to disagree here, but the quantity "percent positive" is problematic.  That quantity is just the total positive over total tests for those tests that GV is running.  Because it mixes in random testing, with some symptomatic testing, and some targeted testing of exposed individuals, it's interpretation is impossible.  It is not "prevalence" (because of the non-random part of the testing), but it also cannot be compared to the state/county values of "percent positive" (because they don't do random surveillance testing). That 3.32% should not give one more comfort given the mishmash of what that 3.32% represents. The percentage just shows the extent of testing (of targeted groups and  presumed exposed/symptomatic people) and nothing else.
Thanks for sharing this info with links. It’s hard to navigate the website, especially with such a high volume of information.
The dashboard says there’s 28k in the GV community, so we’re looking at over 2800 reported case. The key word there is REPORTED, because if there’s at least 2800 reported cases there’s probably well over 3000 actual cases. Food for thought.
Wouldn’t that mean the percentage would be higher the the rest of the population then? If you are mixing random testing with tests for those more likely to have COVID you should end up with a percent positive that is higher then the population’s would be. You are right the percentage can’t be accurately applied to the whole campus, but if anything we would assume that’s a higher number.
No problem! This has been an incredible nightmare to endure, best of luck to you. The website is so poorly maintained, as a web/UI design student it pains me to see my organization failing left and right.
I custom made a t-shirt with this design on it a few years back, it's looking a little worn out now:  http://i.imgur.com/1SLn9Hr.jpg 
Can confirm. Bike stolen from campus. 
You might actually be able to make a map for gta5 that is the campus
I would play this game. 
This is awesome! They work so well together, that font and all. I just started playing online a bunch more recently, still a bunch of hackers on PC but such a fun game.
I think this is fantastic. Nice work!
Anyone else think this should be the banner for this subreddit?
It's been amazing to me that no one has thought about using the Grand Theft Auto Font with my alma mater Grand Valley State University. I whipped up something quick just to see what it would look like. What do you think GVSU peeps.
Do you keep posting the dank signs?
No, but all of my friends keep sending me pictures. Apparently 13 bikes were stolen on springbreak.

Hearing about the 2016 murder again makes my heart hurt for these victims. Their poor families.
good reporting. Such a sad story.
Blah blah... double speak.. more blah blah blah.. sorry our raise in tuition can’t afford a toxicology test to rule out suicide 🤡
Yeah, writing this was honestly a way to positively utilize my hyperfixation on searching for details and sifting through rumors. I used to attend, and my partner works at the lgbtq center and we've both been a little rattled.
With 600 cases and a student/faculty/staff population of around 30,000, that puts the total case rate around 2%. The case rate for Kent County (about 9200 cases and 656,000 residents) is about 1.5%. I think this might be a bit dramatic.

That being said, the tuition argument is completely valid in my opinion. Increasing tuition while your entire student body is receiving a fraction of the services/amenities at a fraction of the quality that could be reasonably expected by a student at GV is absurd.
Those demands are a bit outrageous! GIVE US A FULL REFUND AND A PLACE TO LIVE AND HEALTHCARE AND FOOD. wtf? how are they going to give you a refund AND housing, food and healthcare?? what do you think, that money grows on tress?
I cringed at
> Well 'Philly'
Yeah this is pretty ridiculous. If you don’t like what’s going on then don’t take classes this semester?
Excellent!! So proud of our students!!! We support you!!!
Well it was a freshman 🤦🤦🤦
to be fair, classes have been in session just shy of a month, while Kent has been recording their cases since March.
Completely agree. This "petition" is DOA.
Seriously, whoever wrote this just wants a bunch of free handouts. Since when is a University responsible for healthcare to students? Finding shelter for students not on campus? 

Petitions can be great and all but this one is ludicrous. Horribly written and sounds more like someone whining rather than asking for change. ffs they called for the presidents job!
With a $133,000,000 endowment it can’t be that ridiculous.
Agreed, they think they can just drain the endowment fund and call it good. Yeah that is not how this works, probably a freshman who is pissed they cant have a fun welcome week.
Either way you look at it it's not enough justification to pull the plug. It's perfectly reasonable to try to slow community spread through other means before dropping the nuclear option imo.
As we all know, endowments are stored in the cave under zumbridge hall. It is the sole responsibility of each president to guard this horde with their life. Mantella sleeps each night on this mountain of cash, spooning with her m249.

It will be hard fought, but if we work together we can retake the cave and all share in the spoils.
Yes. I also think there’s a pretty heavy amount of the university population fine with being in person, they’re just a lot less vocal about it.
Except there was almost nobody on campus in august? Cases tripling is quite low if the campus population increased 10x.
GVSU admin will stand in solidarity with it's students; for just as long as it takes for Philomena Mantell and Maria Cimitile to cry all the way to the bank with the students' tuition.

Can't believe I supported the administration's actions in March, but they've done a great job of making the worst decisions (see: ones that save/make the most $$$) instead of making any difficult choices.

Don't worry Philomena, you've got the reputation you so desperately wanted for having the "bravery" to remain in person this semester; you shall remain forever engrained in my mind as the GV president who chose to kill students and faculty instead of reducing size and effectivity of the school for a year.
I think the worst part is a lot of the cases are off campus housing students, so theres not really much you could do about the students choosing instead to party rather than doing what they can to limit the spread. 

Edit: Granted, I’m not saying that all off campus housing students are choosing to do this. It’s just the ones who are doing it really bum me out.
Yes, cases are increasing and yes cases have tripled since move-in week, but the real thing to be concerned with is the positivity rates on testing. From 8/27 to 9/2 the rate has increased 5x from .66% to 3.48%. 

Even if it levels out at 3.48% and you extrapolate that across the GV community, that’s nearly 975 cases (based on 28k). Of the current active cases, 75% are faculty/staff, on-campus students, and students that live within 1 mile of campus. 

So, there could be over 700 cases from those 3 groups, assuming that the current positivity rate levels out at it’s current rate. 

But going back to the positivity rate, that’s what GV is using to determine the threat level and how GV responds. We’re currently in the Medium range (3-10%). That means that even if the positivity rate triples, we’ll still be in the Medium range and it will be business as usual. At 10%, we’d be closing in on 2800 cases. 

So again, the positivity rate of the tests is what we need to keep an eye on.
Don’t be using logic
Ya but that doesn't make for a clickbait title that bubble dwellers will share.
Well the number of cases is picking up quite a bit now.
Not trying to be a dick, but do we have any accounts of students or faculty dying?
That's what it's gonna take to change our course it seems.
And that’s being optimistic.
I really don't know how to feel about going back to GVSU this year. I love being on campus and all, but there's like what... 20K people on campus during the day? Walking from Freshmanland to Calder, from Laker Village to Mackinac... crowded Panda Express lines and a packed library....

I can't help but feel it's only a matter of time before COVID hits campus... I'm honestly not sure what exactly I should do... it almost feels inevitable that we're gonna get shutdown by October. I don't know. I just had an uneasy feeling about going back.
GVSU has definitely dropped the ball when it comes to informing the student/faculty population about the logistics of opening campus back up. Simply saying that they will keep classroom chairs 6 feet apart and close down some of the dining options is not enough. Many issues (what do we do if a student in a dorm/4x4 campus apartment gets infected? How will dining on campus work? How will you stop parties?) have not been directly addressed. You have reason to be uneasy.
Their lack of transparency on all this is hugely disappointing. They couldn’t pay me to send my son at this point, much less the other way around. They are absolutely kidding themselves! A transferrable online class at the community college or a gap semester is fine with me.
I am taking two courses online-only both fall and winter semesters. Saves me a bit of money, but also won't kill me with four online classes at once. Of course this is more feasible with my program path than many others.
Your concerns are valid, I was worried about it I feel like the bigger threat in terms of the virus will be parties and groups. As long as you are wearing a mask indoors, hand washing/sanitizing, and keeping a good distance from others, you shouldn't have to be too worried. I feel like places like Panda express / the library will have markings or signs posted to help people keep a good distance.

Here's to hoping for no more shutdowns.
When they opened registration back up, two of my classes got switched to online and the hybrid made it so I was on campus for one day. I made the decision to find all classes online, I just can’t afford to possibly use an apartment anymore. The uncertainty makes it too scary and risky for me personally. Sorry if this makes you feel more uneasy, but I felt better after deciding to do this!
I contracted COVID-19 at GVSU after all the knuckleheads came back from Spring Break. The ineptitude of the administration borders on criminal.
If you are uncertain maybe you should take 2 or 3 online classes for fall and live at home. That will save you money and allow you time to see where the situation is heading. Everyone knows the virus impact is a "moving target" so there is no one right answer. A semester is basically 3 months so missing one or two is not the end of your college career. Especially in the time of COVID. 
Best of luck!
I completely agree-- I'm scared to go back. GV can control everything on campus but as soon as students go back there's no controlling parties and get-togethers, it feels like a disaster to me.
take online classes
Is it possible to show proof to gvsu staff for u it came from their institution???
You mean to tell me there was a Tauntaun and campus and I didn't hear a word about it?!
Sorry, was too busy checking out this meteorite impact.
Is it just me or does Student Senate not seem to advocate for the student body as much as they claim to? From what I’ve heard from senators and non-senators alike, it’s just a big social club with a bunch of do-nothings that call each other Senator, and with more drama to last them throughout an entire 4 year period of membership. Not to mention their cabinet is an absolute embarrassment and should not even hold the positions or titles they possess. It’s for these reasons I would hate to run, be elected, and be associated with those people.
i know nothing about student senate besides we werent gonna get any days off and they negotiated the two and like ya the two were shitty but i feel like they tried, could you give examples? i’d like to know more !
I planned presidents’ ball several years ago and student senate was nothing but disrespectful to myself and my team throughout the entire process. 0/10.
Here’s something they could do, laid out pretty simple.  MSU offers credit/no credit with a D being acceptable for credit.  Seems all state universities would have the same policy, most do but not GVSU?

http://lanthorn.com/79918/news/gv-students-push-for-credit-no-credit-options-to-be-offered-at-the-end-of-the-semester-again/
I was on student senate for 3 years, and served a year on cabinet. (2016-2019) at that time, senate was aware we didn't have the best PR relationship with students but tried really hard to reach out to students and faculty. Since I left (2020 senate and 2021) it has gone to shit. Fighting with the administration, drama within the body, political affiliations effecting student advocacy, and pushing personal agendas. Just a bunch of self centered people acting like they are better then other people bc they are on senate. It's a shame. It went downhill fast after T.Haas left.
What have you asked a student senator to advocate for that they haven’t?
i know most recently the food sovereignty group had a problem with the senate cancelling on them 15 minutes before a scheduled meeting with them and going back on a lot of promises made to that group but i don't know much other than that
Ryan is this you?
That’s another point as well, from what I’ve heard the senate body tends to lean a great deal in one direction politically and this obviously affects their policy making. What they fail to realize is that the nation’s political issues are not always GV’s.
This is you acting like you’re better than everyone else**
No, this is Patrick.
This is a concerned citizen.
What sort of policy making does senate do?
Which direction? If you're trying to shade, just be open about it.
I mean I definitely thought I was better than other people bc I was on senate. Similar to Greek life vs non Greek life. Or if someone is an RA vs a general resident. It's a social standing. Once I graduated and moved on from being on senate I was like dang that's an issue. I'm definitely not perfect, but trying to better myself. Now I study college and educational advocacy and policy in graduate school!
Well they’re predominantly pretty left, which is not a representation of the entire student body at all.
During my two years on senate, there were a lot more left leaning or moderate individual senators. That being said, the cabinet has often times skewed more right of center and created a lot of roadblocks or controversy to stop many liberal policies from being passed.   
This is one of the contributing factors to their absurdly high turn over rate.
I failed my self-assessment today and thought I'd share my experience. My understanding was that I would receive a call following up to determine further action. I know people who have gotten these calls. I never got one. So I called the 800 number for the COVID-19 resource center myself. I was able to schedule a screening appointment but I was told that they do not follow up on failed assessments and you must call yourself.

I was supposed to come to campus today for work so I also tried navigating the [Emergency Sick Leave Policy](https://www.gvsu.edu/studentjobs/student-employee-sick-leave-54.htm). Student employment was under the impression that this only applies for extended leaves of absence but they didn't know. I tried calling HR for clarification but got their voicemail.

I give up. Grand Valley have no idea what they're doing and classes start in a week.

To anyone on the Virus Action Team who may read this, here are my questions:

* Will people who fail their self-assessment receive a call to follow-up?
   * If so, when can we expect these calls?
* Does the Emergency Sick Leave Policy apply to student workers who fail a self-assessment?
   * What documentation would be required for this?
   * Who do we submit the paperwork to?
Damn. I know you’ve resigned yourself already, but try putting this in an email and sending it to whoever you can. This is really awful all around, not to mention having to deal with phone tag and navigating policy when you’re feeling sick. 


Fucking forget it.
So I'm a student employee for the Office of Movement Science, we had a student call about getting a yellow check on their self assessment and after about 15-20 minutes of calling different places my boss and I figured out who you're supposed to call. Apparently you're supposed to call:  616-331-5811 to ask what your next step should be. So I guess the whole "they'll call you" was a lie. The horrible things is that they only have a single person assigned to answer all calls headed at that number. GVSU has absolutely zero idea of how to handle this.

Edit: Also yellow check means you were flagged for having traveled outside of  Michigan, you can still head to campus but they advise you make sure you didn't travel to a Covid hotspot first. An orange check means you show some symptoms, you can still go to campus but they advise you to stay home and get tested. A red check means you need to stay home and are strongly advised to get tested.
Wait were we supposed to start doing that already?
Every post I read on here is making me want to drop my classes and work through the winter. I don't even give us 2 weeks with this convoluted hybrid format until we call it and go online.
Yikes... it's going to get really bad, isn't it?
Here's the thing. I only failed the assessment because I woke up with nasal congestion. If I were less than honest on the assessment or waited until after 12pm deadline to complete the assessment, I wouldn't be in this situation. Lesson learned I guess.
Interesting. It looks like that number belongs to an individual in the Health Compliance office. One person to process all the failed assessments? that can't be right. The number on the self-assessment page was for the hotline run by Spectrum. What a shit show and classes haven't even started...
Thanks for posting this, it’s all really good info. It would be so much more helpful if these instructions were disseminated by admin though - I would’ve never known the stuff about the colored checks, aside from green. Is that posted anywhere or did you hear it word of mouth?
This is a point where GV hasn't been particularly clear. we are "expected" to complete the assessment daily starting this week. However, you're not "required" to do so unless you're coming to campus that day. Since I intended on working on campus, I filled it out.
Dude seriously just take a gap year. There are seriously just too many benefits strategically you could have right now from taking one year off as a freshman or incoming sophomore if your reddit tag is wrong.

1. First of all you can use that gap year just to be able to save up more money and be more financially well off for the expenses and random things you will need as you go through school. Can also use the extra money from living at home and working to have more money to buy more stocks and investments at the dip when the market and the economy crash. Thus setting you up to make a lot of money off your own money in the present and distant future.
2. Second of all working will make you more mature and take school more seriously because working a garbage job will make you appreciate the opportunity to better yourself and get a degree that is valuable that leads to a much better future. You will like studying more than working most likely and will have more endurance for when things get tough in your classes.
3. This is a prediction, but I think tuition and costs of attending will reduce and be less soon due to them losing more attendance as time goes on from this. I think gvsu will lose some prestige and will come out of this looking really bad and they will likely reduce costs or do something to try to really want to win back the students they have potentially lost due to their bad practices and lack of organization. Barons has even had an opinion piece that has predicted that college tuition will likely see a collapse in price soon.
4. Furthermore, this is a really shoddy college experience to have right now. Freshman year is really important due to it being where you make most of your social connections and with all of this red tape that is going on right now you won't get to experience a true and legit college experience. Online classes also aren't the greatest, and really I think the best choice is always to choose the best option that makes it the easiest to succeed for yourself. Waiting out one year to take classes is a really wise choice if it means the chances of you getting full irl classes is worth it because your instruction and learning will be much better. Odds are you will get better grades too, and you will not have to work against the stream of disorganization and chaos that most definitely will occur due to online courses and most professors not being even slightly prepared to teach online. Coming from experience I will tell you that not all professors are equally organized or equally able to help students much with being able to reply to emails or phone calls very much. Most of the time you will basically be learning all by yourself with no guidance in many courses. Things will be sporadic and inconsistent and I'm 100% you will at one point be tripped up by weird due date info not getting sent out right, bad instructions, or even less explanations on things and being able to not ask as many questions due to online instruction. In fact, even with offline courses bad organization among some professors is a problem. I worry how those same said professors fare with online teaching.
5. In conclusion, due to you not having any college debt yet now is the perfect time to take your time and not rush into a bad decision by beginning to enroll at gvsu right now during this pandemic. Take your time and learn about yourself during this gap year and make some money. In addition, you'll have a more clear mind that so you can then use your mental energy more effectively towards your studies due to not having to deal with unclear problems and issues due to lack of info from your college and your professors. Most of the time finding out something you need to know will be tough right now. I am the type of guy to ask a lot of different questions about things to know what is going on with certain things, so that I can have the information to make the best decisions I can. From my experience lately I have come to the conclusion that most if not all of the staff at the school pretty much has no idea on specifics with anything you could ask them right now that is related to the situation we are in right now. Nobody knows what is going on, and if they ever find out it is only at the very last minute. The leadership under Mantella seems to be just making up the specifics for things as they come along at the very last minute. There is no plan and nothing has been very well thought out. She also doesn't have your best interest at heart. One of her first update videos she posted for covid back in around March she was talking about how people shouldn't take a gap year. Which makes sense because of course she doesn't want that. She is pressuring people emotionally like a loan shark to get people to sign up even if it isn't in their best interest. She said nothing about how maybe people should think for themselves and decide what is best for them. She has no incentive too. She is here for your money only, and is only looking out for herself and not any of you here. By taking a gap year as a freshman right now though you put pressure on them for things to change so that when and if you end up enrolling here again and starting you can then have a better experience and the faculty will actually take us more seriously and be more upfront and honest with us and do what the students want.
Jesus. They’re literally incentivizing dishonest answers.
Nope, this is correct info, I asked the person on the other end (Tina) myself, she is responsible for directing and handling all calls. We tried the hotline and they didn't know what to tell us.  They have no clue what they're doing.
I learned all this by calling the number I posted as a result of trying to help a student that called while I was working for the movement science office. It took about 20 minutes to even get that info.
This is very well said and I couldn’t agree more. I’m not a college student anymore but if I was one going into this year, I would 100% take a gap year. No matter if I was a freshmen or a senior. I wouldn’t want to pay all that money for a university for at most half of the experience. As a GVSU alumn, from what I’ve been reading about their handling of COVID, it’s pretty disappointing to see.
I wish my tag was correct, changing it now. I'm going into my fourth year, nice chunk of debt already over my head. Behind on graduation by at least a year because my internship was dropped over the summer.

The gap year would definitely give me a head start on interest, especially with the freeze on interest for federal loans. I have an apartment off campus, so I have options of working around the Dale or at home.

I don't know that GVSU will specifically come out losing credibility for the general public, moreso universities in general. Let's just wait to see how many schools go bankrupt with no athletic departments!

I may work something out with my counselor to just take a couple online classes per semester, but I'm too far into my degree to take courses at a community college.

Feeling stuck between a rock and a hard place.
Now I’m scared for the start of classes....
That's great to know. I appreciate the information!
I'm a 5th year and haven't had an internship yet. Was going to use one of those networking events but they got cancelled due to covid. :( And I had an exam on the earlier one.
Just got my bill for the semester for my semester of my grad program. These classes will obviously not transfer well at all to an online model. Same with some engineering students I know. Yes we all have to be flexible, but I think the cost of these credits should be too.
I agree.
I'm barred from campus because im in a health program. I physically can't attend my internship because of GVSU policy but I still pay for the credits. Right now I can't step into my field placement until June 22 at the earliest but I can't stop my program. The MSW program does not allow you to pause at any time over the 2 years.
Yet, you failed to mention that in your post and decided to generalize instead. Did you even contact GVSU or your department or did you just post to Reddit looking for sympathy?

GVSU announced on Mar 17th, 2020 (Grad students first day to register classes was Mar 16th) that Spring/Summer classes would begin with remote delivery ([https://www.gvsu.edu/coronavirus/](https://www.gvsu.edu/coronavirus/)) . While there is not date attached, that same link shows GVSU intends to have remote education until June 17th, 2020. You imply that you are in a graduate program yet fail to demonstrate basic critical thinking skills and act surprised because you "just got your bill".

I guess..I don't get how this information.. being so easily accessible, that anyone is suddenly "surprised" and trying to "demand" concessions is dumbfounding. We are in a moment in time where knowledge and information is more readily available than any other previous moment yet the average person is filled with so much ignorance to be bothered to do even the most basic research.
Dude settle down. We're all just trying to figure things out so we don't get totally screwed. None of us know what's gonna end up happening.
My program just made the decision to swap internships to online literally yesterday. You don't know everything.
this is sick, what software did you use?
I’ve never actually seen Pew campus haha
Looks great! I bet gvsu would pay to use this in an ad if you offered
Great shots
Idk if it's the same poster but it's a repost from r/grandrapids or r/Michigan from yesterday or the day before
mf probably mad he failed his first downtown class lmfao
Why tho
I commented on that post too, but in case GV students see, you CAN anonymously report students who are positive testers and exposing others without concern. My sister did report someone this weekend who partied, as well as lied to other roommates about their positive test. The impacts it’ll have on the student by GV with this information will be interesting.
What's the process for doing this anonymous reporting?
Use the CARE Form: [https://www.gvsu.edu/care/](https://www.gvsu.edu/care/)
You can also file a report with The Office of Student Conduct and Conflict Resolution (this link also includes the CARE report): [https://www.gvsu.edu/osccr/file-a-report-22.htm](https://www.gvsu.edu/osccr/file-a-report-22.htm)
Anyone else having mixed feelings...? I feel like without lecture and being able to ask questions I’m gonna fail lol.
Remote learning? Is that just a fancier version of everything going to online?
I HAD A TEST TOMORROW. HALLELUJAH
Man, I’ve been rehearsing for a performance in late March and I can’t think of any alternative other than cancelling rehearsals and the show... hyped for what? Disappointment?
Ope
LETS FUCKIN GO BABYYY i like that mf energy
Why are you excited about classes getting more difficult. Labs will espicially be more difficult or non existent. Opposite of hype.
Oh fuck yeah boys
What’s a GV?
LETS GOOOO BABY
Agreed. Not feeling the hype to be honest.
Im relieved that I don't have to go to my exam tomorrow..
Yeah
Sorry to hear that. I can totally understand your frustration. However, as a socially anxious person who has already been struggling to get to class and cursing the lack of snow days, I am feeling relieved. Such it's hard for me to be bummed about fewer people getting sick. Hype.
Yeah, I was gonna work Playboy but now... How am I going to get my theater credits if I can't work in the theater? I feel you. It's my last semester and I'm NOT coming back here.
I’ve really been struggling with my mental health recently and I’ve been needing more socialization to cope with it. I know it isn’t GV’s fault, but this whole self-isolation culture we’re entering is going to be the death of me 😓
Same here. If this had happened last semester, I would've jumped for joy because I was struggling to make it to class. But now, I really needed to be around people. I'm going to start talking to my cats a lot more, that's for sure.
r/GVSU is officially a cat subreddit
so we can't travel
of all things, why a Wednesday and Thursday
Here's to another shitty semester smh
I mean... it's something, I guess?
We still at least get a bit of an Easter break right?
THE BENEVOLENT GODS HAVE SPOKEN
People travel on the weekends regardless. My Roommate went home almost every weekend
I can't be the only one who thinks this is a slap in the face. 2 days out of like a 16 week semester or whatever. This is a joke.
Thanks Pamela 🥰🥰🥰🥰🥰🥰😐
Agreed, beggars can’t be choosers I suppose
Definitely happy I’m taking a break this semester.
what the hell is the point of this
so did mine, then she stayed gone during the whole lockdown. and was around hella people and told me about it like it was chill. convinced she didn't care about other's health. do that on your own time not if you're living w someone. just reckless.
No offense, but you guys get an extremely long winter break which is a big reason, and another is to keep the transmission down with people going home. Yeah it sucks, but welcome to life AFTER school. You work 40 hours a week, every week until you retire. Some places you get vacation days, but it is never anywhere near the time you get off school. 

Not let me sympathize, I think you honestly need help from the sounds of your other comments. You should seek professional mental health guidance if you can’t, to help manage your time better and to help deal with stress from school. I’m not saying school isn’t stressful, but this is the one point in your life you are still allocated breaks that are extremely long compared to the working world.  I’ve had a bit of therapy myself and you can learn coping skills to help through times you feel overwhelmed.

I hope you’re able to find the help you need.
I’d be happier with 0. Not everyone needs a beak, but we did have to fight really hard to get people like you a couple of days
i know there were petitions going around a while ago asking them to add some mental health days during the semester, idk if they removed other breaks or what but they got student senate involved to add these
Thankfully I don't think he did anything like that but I also saw very little of him too by my choice.
You don't need to take work home with you a lot of the time, with the exception a few careers. College is a lot different this year and it's total chaos. Work and college are two entirely different situations. Yeah, the long winter break is awesome, I won't deny that, but ten weeks from now stress levels are going to be as high as they were last semester.

And while I appreciate the advice, I have been in therapy for many years in the past. I don't need help. I am able to manage myself just fine, I am worried about other people such as individuals on campus and even people at other campuses. I mean, just look at r/Collegerant
Im also not paying a job site 20k/ year to participate, they are paying me, so you're not making a fair comparison here.
Yeah but the difference is we aren’t paying tens of thousands of dollars to go to work. Unless it is something stupid like students wanting guaranteed good grades or something then the school should try to please us the customers due to us being their paying customers. There is nothing wrong with the customer wanting a real spring break and for them to plan ahead for that and hell maybe even have things go full online at that point post spring break
again, i know this is a week old but no one asked for a longer winter break, in fact i hated it i would have much rather taken the week break in the middle. also as someone already in therapy yes it helps to have coping skills but as you said, it also helps to have breaks at this time especially with all the added stress
Good for you. "People like me" as in the people who advocate for the mental health and wellbeing of students. Yeah.
Thing is these fucking suck. Wednesday and thursday wtf that is relatively worthless
Not at all. “People like you” are the ones who need a break. People like me fight for people like you to get a break even when we don’t want one. Then, it’s annoying to see people like you complain
Cry about it
Let them eat cake... People ask for food and they are thrown breadcrumbs. Yeah, two days is something, but it's not substantial to make a difference for many people who are on edge constantly and are becoming borderline suicidal from the stress. Two days in the middle of the week is cheap and an attempt at being sneaky.
How in the world is it sneaky 🤣 If the stress is too much then take less credits. Also, I would recommend you seek counseling if you are suicidal - that will be much more beneficial than 3 more days off
In a perfect world, people would be able to take less credits, but time is money. Less credits means more semesters, which means more stress and more money. Also, I myself am not suicidal, but many individuals feel so swamped with work and school that they feel they don't have time for counseling. Not to mention, counseling from outside the school can add up incredibly quickly.
i know this is a week old but suicidal college kid here whos on meds and sees a therapist so im “getting help” but please understand you cant just “take less credits” i do best at less than 12 credits but im a pell grand student so i get al my funding from school from aid so that is not an option. I also disagree with you “welcome to life after school” bc 40hrs a week with only a job and no hw or classes to stress about is better than working 25 hours and then also having about 25 hours of school work between studying, going to class, and doing assignments. it’s also not that we are “complaining” it’s about being concerned about making it through the semester so that we can all graduate. thanks for advocating for “people like us” but no one asked you to,
The faculty council recently voted to move classes completely online. I don’t know for sure the beaurocratic implications of this vote, but we can likely expect all classes to move online in the next week or so.
Called parking services to cancel my permit (not based off this post, but since we will only be on campus through Thanksgiving anyway). They all but confirmed this. Guy on the line said "oh if you saw that then we are about be getting a lot of calls about this."
How confident are we in this?  I’m supposed to move into south on Thursday and I REALLY don’t want to.  One of my classes moved online this morning which leaves just one left in person (hybrid).  I don’t want to have the headache of moving OR the stress of being out there when we are told to leave. Plus shits expensive man
People living in the dorms will obviously be sent home then, right? Why would they let us stay on campus but not let us go to classes.....I'm supposed to move into my dorm tommorow. Why wouldnt they just tell us now not to move in instead of wasting everyone's time and exposing everyone to eachother just to do it all over again when everyone gets sent home a few days later.
I wouldn't be to sure about that. From the latest email just an hr ago:

While many universities in the state and around the nation reverted to online learning because off-campus parties contributed to uncontainable viral spread, we believe our university can be the exception.  We can take care of our friends, our families, and each other by following health-informed policies and practices.  Remember: whether you are on or off-campus, gather outdoors, or in small groups, always:

Wear a face covering always
Stay six feet apart from others
Wash and sanitize your hands regularly
Complete your daily health self-assessment
Although this fall semester is unprecedented in our lifetimes, we are grateful to be Lakers Standing Together.  Anchor up!
Lol, what does this even mean? Where did you get this info? 

I imagine it's probably happening eventually but what carrier pigeon did your news come from?
This is true. Faculty Senate recommended this on Friday. Now we wait to see if the President adopts their proposal. The vote was 32 to 9 so maybe they'll go for it.

"Courses that do not require a hands-on F2F component will be online. Individual units are responsible for determining which courses must have a F2F component. Any course is assumed to be online unless the unit determines it needs to be F2F"
My PI has my full trust and was confident (from what was said/voted on at the meeting) that all classes would move online this week. With that being said, this isn’t a guarantee. The university has been keeping information from the students, and they will likely drag their feet at making this announcement because they want your dorm/meal $$$. 

I wanted to share this info so people (like you who are moving to campus) can make a well-informed decision about the school year.
My professor emailed my class saying “people more important than me are pushing for all virtual classes” so it seems pretty for sure. I believe it’s still up to mantella and a few others for final decision.
I just move in on campus today, this sucks. Why did they make me come here just to send us home
I'm hoping they don't kick everyone out. I'm living in a single apartment on Pew and I don't really have anywhere to go if they try to evict me.
I just read that email. What a strange attitude to think that for some reason, GVSU will be the exception and is immune to any type of community spread of the virus.
What a cocky fucking bitch this new president is
I’m a graduate student, my PI has been giving me all the corona-related info as soon as they get it. They were at the council meeting at 6 p.m on Friday.
Who where the 9 dissenting votes from?
If all classes go online, did they say anything about what that would mean for housing?
For your sake, I really hope so too. Hopefully you will be able to petition to stay or they make it a case by case basis. I've seen other people saying that they don't have anywhere else to go either, so you aren't alone.
Unfortunately, no. I think everyone is in the dark on pretty much everything housing related. While it’s really difficult to get information, I would go full Karen on housing and call to demand an answer.
I only want to pay for it if I have to be there. Otherwise I would like to just be able to only pay for at most next semester and just move in only for winter semester.
A rapid official got on our bus an told us passengers that starting next week they’re going to start enforcing bus pass rules on the LL. She said as long as we have our student ID’s upon boarding we’ll be ok, so spread the word!
Weird.  I took the bus daily for like 6 years and was never once asked to show my student ID
Back when I went to GV for undergrad 2010-2015 we were required to show our pass usually downtown, on Allendale it wasn't a thing but I remember it downtown.
What the hell why now
Yep, this happened to me today too
All you have to do is show your ID. It's because the City along with GVSU pay for the Laker Line. Everyone can ride not just students, but only students/faculty ride free.
How do you enter through the back doors?
I’ve only seen it on Twitter, and they said that two weeks ago. If they are going to enforce, wouldn’t you think GV would want to notify their students, not have students hope they hear it by word of mouth? So far, I haven't had to show anything.
That is so odd, when I had classes downtown or went to the coffee shops they never made me show an ID. So weird that they're just enforcing this now after 4 years of me being here.
In Allendale? That's just gonna make the busses late all the time

Normal in GR though
If I had to guess it may be because some people in the city have been riding for free and they want to stop it.
Definitely a major bummer, but its the right thing to do
I do feel bad for all the lakers out there that do care about sports, but fuck am I happy that I won’t have to deal with those fireworks every damn week
What do the coaches do at this point? Are they furloughed, reassigned, etc.?
I wonder how this will affect those on athletic scholarships, or incoming freshmen who were counting on an athletic scholarship.
My heart is breaking, not only for our athletes, but for our extremely hard working and talented marching band members. 💙
Some schools have put in scholarship protection plans in case of events like this. I assume GVSU would do the same and allow the student athletes to attend on a scholarship without playing, in hopes they can play at a later date.
I graduated six years ago, I have now moved to the West Coast and in my last year of Grad School, but man I’d be lying if I tell you I don’t miss GV! Laker4ALifeTime is real! Visit when you can, you’ll get all warm and fuzzy feelings when you do. XD
Congratulations! I just graduated as well. Good luck with all of your future endeavors and thank you for sharing these
You never forget your first
I like the GTA picture
Arguably your first anything.  University, ice cream, etc.
Link: https://www.instagram.com/p/CIvpLExjvTz/?igshid=15nd0enh8yaaw
Does anyone know about motives or anything about why this happened?
I don't think that's public knowledge as of right now. My mom actually just called to tell me she read a GVSU post on Facebook stating that "the campus is not in danger".

I'm sorry, but how am I supposed to believe that when there was a deceased person found under "suspicious circumstances", and no other information has been released since?
Suspicious circumstances can mean plenty of things, including suicide or otherwise medically inexplicable at the time of the report. It’s not to say that it’s foul play, and especially if they’ve posted the campus is not in danger, we can likely rule out something threatening. There’ve been way too many rumors floating around this sub about this.
We definitely can't "rule" out foul play. We just straight up don't know. I feel like gvsu wouldn't want to admit the campus is in danger until they fully knew because it's obviously bad for the schools rep to have murder. Until more info is released of course they are going to say "you are safe, we are doing good job."
Is anybody else in the same boat? Last week I was exposed to someone with Covid and then my test came back negative. Even with a negative test I still didn’t pass the daily self-assessment because 14 days haven’t passed since my exposure. So I call the GVSU-COVID hotline and am redirected to the GVSU Health Center who recommends I call the hotline again. Nobody can give me a straightforward answer whether I’m legitimately not allowed on campus or if it’s just recommended that I isolate until I pass the assessment. I understand the possibility of being asymptomatic and the test missed it, but there’s just no clear cut communication and nobody I spoke to seems to have a genuine clue about what the actual procedure is. Should I get retested and see if that changes anything? I know professors have to accommodate students who can’t go to class so I’m not all too worried about that, I’d just like to know what the actual policy as classes are starting.
Same boat.  Not sure what to do. Got a negative test result last night. But I still can’t go. Have a sore throat and was exposed, but I took a test three days ago when my symptoms were the worst and it was negative. Now I feel a lot better but can’t go to my class tomorrow. Not sure what to do here
Flip the Karen (or Chad) switch and get back on the phone with administration and don’t hang up until you get an answer. Unfortunately that’s all the advice I have to give you. I feel terrible for both of you, keep posting here to update with what you find.
Try calling  616-331-5811. On the other end is a woman named Tina, she is the one that is supposed to be handling Students who don't pass the self-exam. She should be able to tell you if you're safe to come to campus or not. If you've already done this then throw your hands up and curse GVSU.
The issue is not that there isn't a clear answer, it's that there is no way to enforce it. GVSU literally _cannot_ prevent you from coming to campus. The question isn't whether you are _allowed_ to come to campus, the question is whether you _should_ come to campus.

A negative test doesn't mean you aren't infected, it means that there isn't enough virus to cause a positive test. It does not mean there is _no_ virus in your system, just not enough to be detected. You may be infected and still have a low viral load, or you may not be infected.

The self assessment says that you should stay home. If I were in your situation, I would stay home.

Edit: I think the conventional wisdom is two weeks between tests
If the self assessment says stay home, then stay home. That's what is for. Your professor has to still deliver the content.
Don't go to campus, the administrator's are handling this badly. By going to class before two weeks are up you are endangering yourself and those around you. Tests can be wrong, take all percautions.
Frustrating situation to be in. You could email your professor(s) and see what they think...whether each class could be successfully delivered online or if in-person is absolutely necessary. Hopefully admin will come out with some better guidelines in the future.
I have found out more about why this is happening, and it's unfortunate and complicated. Basically, it's an intersection of legal, medical, and policy issues, and it's happening with staff, too.

GVSU has contracted with Spectrum for medical advice and testing regarding the pandemic. Working with them, they have developed the daily self-assessment. If the self assessment doesn't come back "all clear", the question of whether to come to campus is murky.

The question of whether it is safe is a medical question, but how much risk the university is willing to take is a policy question. So, Spectrum is telling folks that they can't answer the question of whether to come to campus (because they don't make GVSU policy), and GVSU is saying they can't answer the question (because they aren't medically able to answer the safety issue).

Add to this the fact that saying "come to campus" and having an outbreak could lead to legal trouble, and you have a right mess.

&#x200B;

TL;DR Nobody knows enough about CoViD-19 to say what is completely safe, and nobody has all three of policy, medical, and legal knowledge.
If you didn’t pass the daily self assessment you cannot be on campus. What is hard to understand?
I believe that the reasoning for still having to stay home for the 14 days is because there is a somewhat decent chance for the test that you took to have been incorrect. I haven't actually talked to everyone or read that anywhere, I just know my mom as a nurse made it pretty clear to me that the tests aren't the trustiest things in the world.
Negative test results aren’t enough. You have to wait the 14 days without symptoms because testing is imperfect and false negatives are a thing.
I hear people blaming GVSU a lot, but dudes it's like this out in the "real world" too. Cut them some slack, at least they're trying. That's more than some entire states are doing.
GV alum writing from Korea. Here, ya know damn well if you are exposed it’s a mandatory 14 day quarantine and a little app guy that tracks your location. Simple and effective. Would it work in West Michigan? Ehhhh.

Edit: lots of people even get mysterious care packages of essential items like toilet paper and food from unknown sources (the government).
Trying is a way to put it, gambling with lives would be another
I think generalizations like "other schools" figured things out already, why can't GVSU is also massively unfair if you look at the situation outside the scope of just one or two schools. There are an insane number of schools out there that haven't made good decisions, or even *tried* to make good decisions. 

The problem with this situation, which I've noticed younger folks in general struggle to understand, is that there is no "right answer" or guidebook to use to help with decisions. 

The other problem is this strange sort of helplessness where people blame others, without accepting responsibility for themselves. I've seen people posting pictures of students massively not following social distance guidelines and blaming the school. I've seen students saying here on this subreddit "if GVSU doesn't cancel classes I'm going to party like crazy to send a message about unsafe situations". 

Guys, it's *all of our* responsibility to be safe. It's not someone else's job to to force you to be safe. If you feel unsafe *fucking leave*. Your situation at GVSU, where there's confusion about how to progress, matches that of *everyone else in the country* right now. It's not unique to you. Other schools don't have it "all figured out". No one does. You as *an individual* must do what's right and safe for you.

I live in a small town in MA and people out here are having fucking house parties with hundreds of people, despite laws against it. People are going to be idiots everywhere, regardless of policies or laws.
Pun on intense. But seriously, I just got an email from one of my profs - my only in person class will be meeting in A TENT outside of Kirkhof. Through October. What the fuck is going on?

EDIT: The class is held in tent #5, so that means tents 1-4 likely exist and will probably be holding more classes.
That sounds incredibly fucking dumb right now unless it's an outside class like some archeology credit or specific anthropology course, or an independent study, or I guess maybe some geo course 

Is an an anth course?
Lol wtf. What class it?
The curtains will start to come back now that tuition has been paid
Yeah they've had really big tents up since before the 14th. Which is when I arrived on campus. Its funny tho. Bc how many people ate gonna show up on a cold ass fall day. Like yeah, hoodies and coffee exist, but when its 40-50 degrees outside, and you want to have class cause its not winter yet? Yeah okay.
There is a huge tent on PEW that has tables under it, so I’m assuming it’ll occur there too?
I drove through campus the other day and saw tents outside Kirkhof and the Fieldhouse, and the Performing Arts Center.
Yeah I helped when they set the tents up. Not all of them are going to be used for classes but some of them are
Some of the theatre labs are in a tent this year too 🤣
What is so crazy about doing lab in an outdoor tent? I've seen the tents and they are much bigger than a typical classroom and will allow for proper distancing. Air also wont be recirculating through the AC. Seems like a fine idea to me.
Over the summer I built tents like that for a job, and it never made any sense to us. Why is it ok to meet and hold groups in our tents and not just correctly socially distance.
It’s a bio course. The lab portion of the class is actually held outdoors, but this tent business is for the lecture portion, which is always held indoors.
It’s a graduate course about stream ecology. The crazy thing is, the class is held in tent #5, meaning tents 1-4 probably exist and will probably have classes in them.
The wind ripping off the Allendale plains.
Yeah that's weird as hell. Is a tent even really any safer than indoors? How is it worth the trouble at all lmao
Ok, weird to me they are doing that, but at least it isn’t a IT class or something. best of luck!
I agree. The quality of education in a tent is probably several magnitudes lower than the quality of education online. It’s just so ridiculous.
Mainly because who knows when it's going to storm or be super windy and loud
Aw man! I've always wanted to see one in person. 
Fantastic find and post!
So just a psa but I've noticed a lot more litter on campus over the past couple years and I know it's just going to keep getting worse as we're expanding, but honestly it pisses me off and it makes me sad. I try to pick things up as I go, and I do think we need more trash cans around the sidewalks and such, but please just spread the word to your friends and try not to be fucking fucks by throwing your garbage on the ground. Thanks pal
Seconded. Don't take our beautiful campus for granted. 
I was just thinking this earlier today when leaving the gym. Almost posted it on Yikyak. I picked up a nail from the parking lot. It gets worse the closer you get to Lubbers. Beer cans, broken glass, and three inch nails apparently. 
I couldn't agree more.  It's always quite bad up in freshman land whenever I head over that way
No I'm Dirty Dale!
EDIT: They declined :(
Ohhh buddy, there's a lot more underground racism here than you'd expect
Y'all are acting so surprised that a PWI isn't bigoted, prejudice, or even racist in the slightest. There's always going to be that percentage of students and workers that are. On top of that. Students had justly reported they saw someone walking around in either a trash bag or something else all white that made them look KKK affiliated literally 2 days ago. Even if it was a joke or a "tik tok challenge" its not acceptable. So please, stop acting surprised like GV is the exception to assholes like this.
I know it's in the email, but if anyone has information about this event, please call GVPD at (616) 331-3255 or contact Ottawa County Silent Observer, [http://www.mosotips.com/](http://www.mosotips.com/). Silent Observer accepts anonymous tips both online and via phone .
Don’t know anything about this, but I’m not surprised. I’ve heard murmurs of extreme right wing people on campus and well, the area we’re in isn’t exactly the most liberal
Extremely disappointing to see. GVSU works very hard to promote inclusivity and a campus where all feel welcome. It is incredibly difficult to rise above our western Michigan reputation and it pains me to see that we continually fall short
Do we know this was done by someone at GVSU? Zoom-bombing doesn't require or respect any kind of physical location. (I imagine that makes it really hard to investigate.)

**UPDATE:** It wasn't done by someone at GVSU. Just received in email: "I want to share with you that thanks to the great work by the Grand Valley Police Department and our IT department, it has been determined the reprehensible racial incident reported during a Zoom meeting of our Black Male Scholars group last night did not come from people within our university community. That fact in no way diminishes our resolve to fight racism at every turn. The values of Grand Valley State University call us to be a model of an inclusive and affirming community."

I'm assuming that they did some kind of IP trace and found the attack was from off campus. Doesn't mean it wasn't a GVSU person if that's the case. But basically there are no conclusions anybody can draw about the person who did it at this point.
If y’all don’t remember in the spring when zoom got its rise in popularity, hacker attacks were SO common. Racist, explicit images and language just because people are stupid and bored. Like someone else said, it may have not even been someone at GV. It sucks that it happened, but zoom isn’t a very secure platform so it’s to be expected that attacks happen unfortunately.
Take this with a grain of salt as well folks, some of the people who go to GV are locals, they are from West Michigan as a whole, they don't outwardly invoke racist ideals, but they're sometimes engrained with the, "minorities = bad mmkay" mentality. I've lived in west michigan and seen it, don't deny it doesn't exist. 

Also, with cheeto-in-chief spewing hate and idiocy to his crowd, how much you wanna bet it was an edgy kid trying to get clout in some community somewhere. Just sayin'.
Its not even underground. Its v blatant 😌💀
I know there's racism, I've saw tons of trump flags back in 2016, but what do you mean by underground? Have we really been dealing with cyber terror attacks and I've just been missing it?

Genuinely curious
thank you! this is, what i call, devos university. we’re also affiliated with steelcase, which is a pretty racist,misogynistic, etc. as well. idk why anyone would be surprised.
given that, I don’t know if this incident was just some stupid asses trying to be “funny” or legitimate threats. Either way, this incident needs to be taken 100% seriously with the students responsible held to the highest standard. This is not ok
Ah, yes. Unfortunately it is not just murmurs. After the protests in GR this summer they’re feeling a but too proud of their bigotry.

You are also correct about our area.

If any are interested.... the history of some of these western Michigan churches is extremely interesting and appalling
When a majority of your student body is from the backwards surrounding area that can make it quite a challenge.
Exactly!! It’s very common every where since zoom became popular
It was not done by someone at gv. Just confirmed. I came here to see what happened and if anyone has an idea where this is coming from
I wouldn't say its not secure. Email says it was 4 student orgs that got bombed, my guess is that the rooms were publicly posted + not password protected and some random troll came across them.
Oh no
lol who isn't racist these days, I found out I was racist a couple weeks ago when I kept listening to the JRE despite the new revelations that he is essentially Joseph Goebbels.

anyone who thinks blatant racism is tolerated at gvsu has twisted the meaning of the word beyond recognition.
The jokes are never just jokes.
Trying to be funny is what the right wing thrives off of. That's how these subs get radicalized. You keep kicking out and banning people who don't get the joke and soon you get r/thedonald, a circle jerk of racist users who can't self regualate breeding extremists. Look at political compass memes for a future banned sub
I’m far too aware of the far-right idealisms of West Michigan, but now I’m intrigued by your comment - any specific stories?
Facts.
Another option is that someone posted the link somewhere. When classes first started and no one knew how to set up zooms, everyone was posting links on random discord and 4chan threads asking randoms to join and interrupt their classes.
Same here... been going to GV now for 3 years and I have yet to hear about another instance of "blatant" racism besides this one.
i worked there and thankfully it wasn’t too bad at all actually. but the higher up you go, the worse it gets. unfortunately. they refuse to promote women, yet they make them do the work for the higher position. truly unfortunate.

edit: the source is my mom, who has been with the company 30+ years and they refuse to promote her even though she’s been doing things higher than her position for years.
Schrödinger's douchebag/dog whistle/"plausible deniability" are the stock-in-trade of right wing "jokes"
It is, but its not zoom thats insecure.
Bingo
Unsecured is a better description
Right?? Like do these people know about some underground racism ring that we don't know exists?
The inmates who regularly help out at the shelter have recently been quarantined. We need volunteers to help clean, feed, do laundry, etc. If you're interested, you can contact Jan Barger( a liaison from the sheriff's office) at 616-460-5657. I know many of you are still busy with the current changes, I just figured I'd put the word out! Any volunteers are appreciated:)
I work in IT and I've been in the tunnels a couple times before.  Nothing too exciting.  They all mainly look like this with more or less pipes.  

Although one tunnel had a small, single room on the side.  It had one desk in the center of the room with a single hanging light bulb.  Something out of a horror movie if you ask me!

Edit: Here's [another picture] (http://i.imgur.com/qrMjjkx.jpg?1)
Whats really cool is the places in the tunnels you can climb up into which are used for air filtration purposes. They are the garbage can looking things that stick up out of the ground around campus.
While conducting a tour last semester, a parent asked about the tunnels. When I told her they were not available for student use, she was surprised because apparently when she was looking at Grand Valley when she was in high school, the tunnels were advertised for walking through when it got too cold. Anybody ever hear anything similar?
Deleted account? 0_0
Just to add to the discussion, [here](https://www.flickr.com/photos/63566430@N07/6006526378/in/pool-iamgv%7C63566430@N07/), [here](https://www.flickr.com/photos/63566430@N07/6006523138/in/pool-iamgv%7C63566430@N07/), [here](https://www.flickr.com/photos/63566430@N07/6006521270/in/pool-iamgv%7C63566430@N07/), and [here](https://www.flickr.com/photos/63566430@N07/6045970930/in/pool-iamgv%7C63566430@N07/) are photos taken during the MIP lib of the utility tunnel that appears to come out from the clock tower/Cook-DeWitt/Kirkhof area and run underneath the space between student services and the library. I'm not sure where they are leading to, unless there is a corner that then leads back towards the library. 
Since no one else asked.. How can I see these for myself? 
Is this underneath Padnos? Looks like it's by the area they store old electronics.
There is a "tunnel" between Manitou and Mackinac for this purpose.
Yes, actually.  The full-time workers in mail services tell me they used to use the tunnels for some of their deliveries during the winter.  
it was probably a throwaway account
Without any keys, you could climb down an elevator shaft in Honors. Wouldn't recommend though :) 
You can't really... 

They were exposed for a little bit during my sophomore year because of the construction of the South C, D, and E living centers, but they're sealed up now. 
Same with Kirkoff to the MIP Library. 

Also, I just realized that I've been at GVSU for 5+ years and still don't know how to spell "Kirkoff" (vs. "Kirkhoff" vs. "Kirkof"). I bring shame upon this university. 

EDIT: They'll also have a student-accessible tunnel between Padnos & the new science building once it's completed. 
Bummer. I'm sure there's a way somewhere. 
Kirkhof
GVSU faculty member here. We have six weeks to go in the semester and I just wanted to leave a note of encouragement to all students who may be reading. As we enter the home stretch -- didn't the semester just start last week? -- I feel like I speak for many of my colleagues when I say we have your back, we're rooting for you, and we hope for a strong finish. 

So as we come back from break, I want to encourage you to hang in there, work hard, come bug your professors for help or just to talk because it's kind of a well-kept secret that we like to be bugged by students. You students have my and my colleagues' utmost respect for the amount and quality of the work you do. Thanks. 
Thanks for posting this. Many other students, including myself, do appreciate the support from teachers who do encourage us to not give up. It's pretty sad that one of my professors has been stressing to us the withdrawal date over and over again this semester, but that's not what we need. We need a bit of help. Maybe a slight push. It can really make a world of difference. 

edit: my brain doesn't work on Sunday
Thank you for posting this Prof. Talbert.  Time flies!
Thank you so much for posting this. I really appreciate. 
I stressed the withdrawal date too a little more than I have in the past, just because of the unusual date -- during spring break. I feared that some students who normally would be on top of things who might be thinking of withdrawing didn't get screwed because the W date wasn't where it usually is. 

One of my profs in college used to hand back particularly bad papers with a McDonald's application stapled to the back of them. That kind of sets the bar for bad bedside manner. 
Hi there, I'm a professor in the Math Department and serve as the department's Online/Hybrid Course Coordinator. I'm also active here on the subreddit. Based on a lot of the interactions I've had with students here since the "Big Pivot" back in March, it's  very clear that students have a lot to say about their experiences with online and hybrid courses, and we faculty/admins have a lot to learn from you. 

So, working with our department chair and assistant chairs, **we've created a survey asking for your input on our online and hybrid instruction**. Please note that to keep things focused, **the survey is only for students who are currently (Fall 2020) enrolled in a mathematics course (one that starts with "MTH") that is online or hybrid (not fully face-to-face).** 

You can find it here: http://gvsu.edu/s/1wq

This survey should take less than 10 minutes to complete, although you may spend as much time with it as you wish --- in fact this is a great venue for you to go into depth if you wanted, and I know a lot of you have many things to communicate. Your responses will be anonymous, and I personally guarantee all responses will be read (because I'll doing the reading!). We'll be using the information we get to identify broad trends and issues --- things we're doing well; places where we need to improve; and maybe most importantly, what your needs are, and how we can do better at meeting them. 

To sweeten the deal, once you complete the survey you'll be given a link to another form where you can enter your name and email for a random drawing for one of several $20 Amazon gift cards. You can also then indicate if you'd like to participate in followup surveys and focus groups we might conduct later.

We are serious about listening to you and improving our offerings based on your feedback. I hope that if you're in an online or hybrid MTH course right now that you'll budget some time to complete this survey. And if you've got any questions, just leave them in the comments and I'll respond. 

Even if you don't do the survey, please know that your work this semester is hugely inspiring to us faculty. You're being asked to get a college education under conditions that many of us with PhD.'s now would have found impossible back in our college years. So please know that we see you and appreciate you.
Did everyone get the email from GVSU safety? If you have any information, please report it. I wish the survivor the best for recovering from this. 
Email posted below:

“A report was made to Grand Valley State University of a sexual assault occurring off-campus at Meadows Crossing Apartments in Allendale at about 10 p.m. on Tuesday, September 8, 2020. The person who reported the incident indicated the victim/survivor passed out in a bathroom and awoke in a bedroom within the same apartment while a person was engaging in forced, non-consensual sex. The victim/survivor was unable to identify the suspect. 

Anyone with information is encouraged to contact the Ottawa County Sheriff’s Office at (616) 738-4000 or silent observer at www.mosotips.com. 

If you see suspicious activity, call 911. If you are a victim of sexual assault, get medical attention, preserve evidence and consider reporting to police/Title IX. Additional resources are available through the GVSU Center for Women and Gender Equity Victim’s Rights and Options website https://www.gvsu.edu/vro/ and Victim Advocate Krystal Diel at (616) 331-2748 or dielkrys@gvsu.edu.”
This is horrendous. Hopefully there is justice served and the suspect is found or comes forward. Students talk, all it takes is one to know something!
It broke my heart to receive this email earlier. But you know what, I was not surprised. All I could think was “here we go, not even the second week of school”. There must be a cultural shift. My heart and soul is with the survivor of this crime.
I totally agree. Scary times out there, but I’m optimistic that someone will say something!
Hey everyone, I hope you all are doing well! I thought I would make you guys aware of an event that's coming up this week. There is a student organized protest coming up on Friday, August 7th at 1 p.m. to protest the 3% tuition increase. If you are interested in attending, I'll drop the Facebook link at the end of this post! While I'm not the creator of the event, I feel like it is necessary for us to use our voice and have more students be aware of this.

[Protest Against GVSU's Tuition Hike]
(https://facebook.com/events/s/protest-against-gvsus-tuition-/354188118903975/?ti=as)
The only successful protests is going to be peop e not attending GVSU. GVSU is a business and students are the customers. As long as people keep on buying the product there is no reason for them not to increase tuition.
Imagine paying the same tuition for impersonal pre-recorded online sessions that are likely recycled from professor to professor. 

I can. 

It's sad, i picked GV cause i thought they gave a fuck about the students, but covid has proved that their only concern is the cash flow.
I'm a decade removed now from GVSU, but the value of a college education can't be measured. I'd gladly have paid more, if they'd ~~requested~~  required it. Loans aren't the devil. Some loan *practices* are but debt isn't something to be "avoided at all costs".

If you are serious about college, and are using it to build a career, it will pay for itself very quick. If you dick around and get an "easy major"  without any career plan, it won't and those people get very upset. However, GVSU had an excellent career center that almost no one I knew actually used, but managed to get me an internship that kickstarted my career AND gave me the guidance I needed to plan out my major path. I actually "wasted" 2 years of my college career on a major I didn't end up enjoying, and the career center helped me figure out the optimal way to transition. It was amazing, and more students should use it!

Maybe that's changed, but I serious doubt it.

I also remember GVSU being significantly cheaper than most other colleges. My partner went to a college in Chicago and paid 4x what I paid at GVSU. Again, this may have changed, but a 3% increase seems low to me.

One huge huge huge life lesson I've taken to heart here that might apply to some: pick your battles carefully.
This is true; now how do you have -100 comment karma?
yep! I literally unenrolled from GVSU and enrolled in MSU instead. So I'm helping a little, at least
I appreciate that perspective from an alumnus! I believe (from what I've been seeing) that this is stemming from them raising tuition in the middle of a pandemic, that's the main reason. Personally I don't think there would be a protest happening if this was under "normal" circumstances. But the reasoning for it still stands, including for those that do pay out of pocket and are in a financial hardship.

No doubt GVSU offers a lot of great services that are included in the tuition price and also from money raised for various funds. This is just a hard time for everyone attending the university.

I appreciate you taking the time to give your thoughts on this, especially having graduated a decade ago! I love seeing alumni still keeping in touch with everything at the university, genuinely!
The issue isn't simply a tuition hike, it's also the fact that we will be receiving a lower quality of education this fall, yet we are paying MORE.
that’s what i want to know. how can one be that unlikeable? lmao
So you're going to pay thousands more to protest what is essentially a $400 tuition increase?
Sadly that is all you can do.
Honestly if I still lived near GR I would probably still keep in touch with the school. Oddly as a "recent alumnus" back in the day I gave a speech at a CS class to talk about what the "real world" was like and I love doing that!

The pandemic is tough and strange. On the one hand - shit's weird right? But... to be completely fair, many of the CS professors (my eventual department... I was actually a TA / lab assistant for 3 years!) taught remotely already anyway, even 10 years ago, and many people attended remotely or read the notes/watched the videos later. It was a weird time even then. The services that can't be done remote suck (and it certainly wouldn't "feel" like college IMO) but the value and educational opportunities are still there! 

I think we all need to band together in the pandemic and the harsh reality is that it's very likely less people will go to college for several years, and to combat that the lost revenue needs to come from *somewhere* or else colleges will start losing the talented professors they have. 

A lot of people think colleges are just buildings/campuses, but that's not true. The real value is the professors. That might sounds strange, but I think every student who has the opportunity to pick the brain of as many professors as possible should take that opportunity. I started doing that my senior (and super-senior, see previous comment about changing my major) year and seriously regret not doing it earlier. I still remember several professors in the CS department fondly (is Jerry Scripps still there?!?).

If a 3% hike in prices will let the college stay the way it is now, why wouldn't people want to do that?

(On a side note, as I've been very removed... my career has been WILD post-GVSU. Worked at several startups and big companies, ranging from web security to tax companies. Got to work with legends in the field, like Sir Tim Berners-Lee. Now I'm working at a large company that everyone would know the name of, working to revitalizing it. I was laid off in the pandemic, but discovered that the CS world, people were CHOOSING not to go back to work and coasting on the stimulus money for unemployment, which I worked into a $40k increase in salary! I'm shocked. The world is weird.)
If anything, the pandemic is causing them to raise tuition b/c schools lost a ton of money and the new CDC requirements cost money. New government regulations = more $ needed.
I wish I knew. I have comments with over 50 upvotes buy my comment karma is still -100. I think there is a glitch. Also Reddit tends to lean left so anything going against that tends to get down voted. Can't challenge the hive mind.
lol no I didn't switch BECAUSE of this, but a couple months ago I had the sense GVSU was not for me and not handling COVID well
i always thought reddit was right leaning. must be certain subreddits!
Reddit is incredibly left-leaning. I say that as a left-leaning person myself
Very few are right leaning. Most scew left. Just go to r/Michigan for example.
People litterally advocate for criminal actions and blame white people/males/cops etc for everything but I am abrasive?
Definitely depends on what you follow and how your data gets “personalized”
I feel like most of the US based subs like r/Michigan tend to think they lean left, but when they talk about politics they support centrist views and policies. Its probably because US politics are so skewed right that people assume Democrats are the left, even though they don't really do anything leftist. Areas of Reddit that are less America-centric might look different, especially in countries with stronger leftist parties.
That is a great explanation.
that’s absolutely fascinating. i had always conflated reddit and 4chan, which clearly stemmed from my own biases. thanks for the explanation!
GV needs to consider while yes, a majority of students here are young and healthy, there are students like myself with underlying medical conditions out of our control which would drastically increase the risk factors of complications if said students were exposed.

While a shutdown at this point of time would seem like an overreaction to some since there are no “confirmed” cases - everyone just got back from all parts of the world from break. Precautionary steps (or additional communication) should take place.

Additionally I believe professors attendance policies should be relaxed. 

My 2 cents nobody asked for
Professors have been advised to be accommodating in this exact situation. Talk to your profs, I think they would work with you.
I’m sure I don’t need to tell you the Laker Store is over priced, but did you also know it’s a ripoff too? $94 for a loose leaf copy of a book from the laker store... Found that bad boy on amazon for $40 BOUND. $95 for a Connect code from the laker store? Nah get it for $75 straight from the site. Don’t let this school run you dry!
Yeah. In general Amazon has been a big reason I can afford to take classes. It's a godsend when you can rent or buy your non free books from them.
Also: there are 100% discounts for textbook PDFs if you don't mind Google searches or ebooks.
Hey guys!! I saw some protesters on campus today and it made my heart very happy :) in the future how do I find out about participating in events like these? Did a student organization plan this event? ❤️❤️❤️
I'm not exactly sure which student organization set it up but I know the advertisement got around to different gvsu social media platforms. If you follow gvsu student life on social media im pretty sure they advertised it. And hopefully in the future if more events are held like this we can advertise them here!
This event was set up by the black Greek council. With limited info about events in person nowadays I suggest you follow student orgs on Instagram that’s usually how they promote things
I had to work, but I would’ve loved to participate! I hope they host more!
I found out via gvsu housing’s Instagram! It’s gvsu.housing :)
From the most recent GVSU Virus Action Team. 
"Because all universities are not making the same decision, we have been falsely labeled as having the most cases at a public university in Michigan. If we reported only our on-campus numbers, as many others have chosen to do, we would have one of the lowest numbers of reported cases."

Shifting the blame instead of giving actual solutions concerning the problems with our number of cases. Thats a good look GV
I’m the email girl from a few posts ago. I followed up my scathing email about my testing experience with this one. I sent it a few hours before the VAT released the response you posted about above (I included links in the original email but I can’t redo them for this post cause I’m on mobile): 

“Unfortunately I cannot find the time to speak on the phone - I'm in my first few days of graduate school so my free time is limited, and I have already spent a great deal of time trying to resolve this issue. I suggest you visit the GVSU subreddit (https://www.reddit.com/r/GVSU/) to read testimonials and concerns from students. I don't believe the feed has been previously monitored by administration, and although it is social media, I feel it is a valid, relaxed way to interface with students/faculty and hear their concerns.. Many students share my worries about testing and tracing at GVSU, and many have been negatively impacted by the current COVID-19 policy. In summary, the biggest complaints are as follows:

1. Post coronavirus test, students are not receiving information about how to set up a spectrum account or where to go to get their results.
2. Test accuracy.
3. Safety of the testing facility.
4. There is one human being fielding all phone calls about daily assessment issues.
5. A complete move to online instruction for the rest of the semester will not even be considered until we reach "high alert" with a 7-day positivity rate of more than 25%, per the Alert Levels and Indicators page. If more than 25% of the student body is infected that is over 6,000 people. 
6. This article just published by mLive, which states that GVSU has the highest number of coronavirus cases of any university in the state of Michigan. It is important to note that the analysis in the article was conducted using data released by the schools (GVSU releases both on and off campus cases, while other institutions release only on campus cases), however the numbers are still striking and cause for immediate concern. 
7. The implications of corruption and special interest directly resulting from the appointment of the Vice President of finance to the position of Director of the Virus Action Team. 

We are currently at triple the number of cases were last week. The testing procedure should have had every crease ironed out of it long before the random testing policy was introduced and students were back on campus. If we reduce all of the above issues to their simplest terms, people do not want to die, and they don't want their loved ones to die. Grand Valley has continuously made a mockery of these concerns by showing heinous disregard for student and faculty safety.”
You can’t say you were “falsely” labeled with the most cases. Don’t blame the media. They report on your numbers and compare it to those provided by other institutions. If you choose to report and increase “transparency” you have to accept the consequences.
This is not shifting the blame. Many people simply cannot comprehend the information they put out.
They’re not shifting blame, they’re stating why gv is reporting more cases than other schools.

>no solutions

I’m just going to assume you diddnt read the whole email and have not been on campus a single day this semester
I think you might be able to find the hot spots on the Ottawa Co. Health Dept. site. I haven’t confirmed this, but the GV numbers are skewing they county numbers so I think the county has been tracking which spots are the problems.
While I usually dont respond to snotty ill-mannered comments, I actually do go into campus two days a week for my labs that are required for my major and have no other option then in person. Also, they are shifting the blame. Instead of owning up to their part in transmitting covid they say that they are only #1 for most cases in the state because they report off campus students infected. The email also never address any solutions on how they want to reduce the spread of the virus, as their plan is already failing as its pretty simple to see.
Shifting the blame would be saying 'we only have more cases because the students aren't listening.' Saying our reported cases are higher than other colleges because we have a different standard for what counts as a case is not.

The email address many solutions, maybe you just have trouble with reading comprehension?
There's more than one way to shift blame for having such a high case number, one of which would be through saying its because students arent listening, but saying that we only have a a high number of cases because we are more transparent testers is a load of bullshit. GVSU  saying they arent actually #1 in amount of cases due to "fake reporting" is an attempt to shift blame. Our number of cases has everything to do with: Orientation for freshman still being in person with many people not wearing masks, some classes have no online option, Kleiner being filled with people past the capacity within the first week, and by a number of activities for residents in dorms still being held in person. The email only address solutions for those taking the bus as well as touching upon the self assessment and never mentions any further action to better our situation with long testing lines for random testing, some classes not being offered online even if students don't feel safe going to that class, and the self assessments before entering a building never being checked by GVSU staff. If you genuinely think that GVSU isnt shifting the blame then I think you are genuinely ignorant on a plethora of issues many other GVSU students are having with the current system GVSU has put into place.
It has nothing to do with transparency and everything to do with including groups that other schools don't. Unless you have proof they're lying, that is not shifting the blame, thats just stating fact. There isnt even a argument to be made.

>If we reported only our on-campus numbers, as many others have chosen to do, we would have one of the lowest numbers of reported cases

It seems to me like GV is doing just fine.
